\documentclass[]{book}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
  \ifxetex
    \usepackage{mathspec}
  \else
    \usepackage{fontspec}
  \fi
  \defaultfontfeatures{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=MatchLowercase}
\fi
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{%
\usepackage{microtype}
\UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\usepackage[margin=1in]{geometry}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\hypersetup{unicode=true,
            pdftitle={Modeling Melodic Dictation},
            pdfauthor={David John Baker},
            pdfborder={0 0 0},
            breaklinks=true}
\urlstyle{same}  % don't use monospace font for urls
\usepackage{natbib}
\bibliographystyle{apalike}
\usepackage{longtable,booktabs}
\usepackage{graphicx,grffile}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
\IfFileExists{parskip.sty}{%
\usepackage{parskip}
}{% else
\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
\setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{5}
% Redefines (sub)paragraphs to behave more like sections
\ifx\paragraph\undefined\else
\let\oldparagraph\paragraph
\renewcommand{\paragraph}[1]{\oldparagraph{#1}\mbox{}}
\fi
\ifx\subparagraph\undefined\else
\let\oldsubparagraph\subparagraph
\renewcommand{\subparagraph}[1]{\oldsubparagraph{#1}\mbox{}}
\fi

%%% Use protect on footnotes to avoid problems with footnotes in titles
\let\rmarkdownfootnote\footnote%
\def\footnote{\protect\rmarkdownfootnote}

%%% Change title format to be more compact
\usepackage{titling}

% Create subtitle command for use in maketitle
\newcommand{\subtitle}[1]{
  \posttitle{
    \begin{center}\large#1\end{center}
    }
}

\setlength{\droptitle}{-2em}
  \title{Modeling Melodic Dictation}
  \pretitle{\vspace{\droptitle}\centering\huge}
  \posttitle{\par}
  \author{David John Baker}
  \preauthor{\centering\large\emph}
  \postauthor{\par}
  \predate{\centering\large\emph}
  \postdate{\par}
  \date{2018-10-02}

\usepackage{booktabs}
\usepackage{amsthm}
\makeatletter
\def\thm@space@setup{%
  \thm@preskip=8pt plus 2pt minus 4pt
  \thm@postskip=\thm@preskip
}
\makeatother

\usepackage{amsthm}
\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}[chapter]
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}[chapter]
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}[chapter]
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}[chapter]
\newtheorem{proposition}{Proposition}[chapter]
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}[chapter]
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{exercise}{Exercise}[chapter]
\theoremstyle{remark}
\newtheorem*{remark}{Remark}
\newtheorem*{solution}{Solution}
\begin{document}
\maketitle

{
\setcounter{tocdepth}{1}
\tableofcontents
}
\hypertarget{significance-of-the-study}{%
\chapter{Significance of the Study}\label{significance-of-the-study}}

All students pursing a Bachelor's degree in Music from universities
accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music must learn to
take melodic dictation \citep[ Section
VIII.6.B.2.A]{NationalAssociationSchools2018}. Melodic dictation is a
cognitively demanding process that requires students to listen to a
melody, retain it in memory, and then use their knowledge of Western
musical notation in order to recreate the mental image of the melody on
paper in a limited time frame. As of 2018 there are 647 Schools of Music
belonging to National Association of Schools of Music (NASM) CITE
WEBSITE, meaning that hundereds of students every year will be expected
to learn this challenging task as part of their Aural Skills education.
The logic being that as one improves in their abiliy to take melodic
dictation, this practice of critical and active listening develops as a
means to improve one's ability to ``think in music'' and thus become a
more compotent musician. While learning Aural Skills has been a hallmark
of being educated within the Western conservatory tradition, the
rationale behind both the how and why of aural skills is often thought
of as being esoteric. Throughout the past century, people have disagreed
on exactly how one does go about learning a melody with different areas
of research each attacking the problem from a different angle.

Despite its ubiqiquity in curricula within School of Music settings,
research on topics pertain to how aural skills are acquired is limited
at best. {[}Citations here about the cosntant calls butler, klondoski,
pembrook{]} The fields of music theory and cognitive psychology are best
positioned to make progress on this question, but often the skills
required to be well versed ein ither of these subjects are disparate,
published in other journals, and the research with overlap is scarce.
This problem is not new and there have been repeated attempts to bridge
the gap between practioners of aural skills and people in cognitive
psycholgy CITES. Literature from music theory has establisehd conceptual
frameworks regarding aural skills
\citet{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000} and the relavint cognitive
psychology literature has explored factors that might contribute to
melodic perception (SCHMUKLER SYNERR 2016 2016), and there exists
applied literature from the world of music education (CITES).

However, despite these siloed areas of research, we as music researchers
do not have an a concrete understanding of exaclty what contributes to
HOW individuals learn melodies (HALPERNBARLETT2010). This is peculiar
since ``how does one learn a melody'' seems to be one of the fundamental
questions to the fields of music theory, music psychology, as well as
music education. Given this lack of understanding, it becomes even more
peculiar that this lack of convergence of evidence is then unable to
provide a solid baseline as to what student in their aural skills
classrooms can be expected to do. (Also something about we should really
know this if we are going to grade people on this ability). While no
single dissertation can solve any problem completely, this dissertation
aims to fill the gap in the literature between aural skills
practitioners (theorists and educators) and music psychologists in order
to reach conclusion that can be applied systematically in pedagogical
contexts. In order to do this I draw both literatures (music and
science) in order to demonstrate how tools from both cognitive
psychology as well as computational musicology can help move both fields
forward. Some line here about if we really want to understand what is
happening we need to know about causal factors going on here and have
experimental manipulation and things like making models of the whole
thing or talk about what Judea Pearl thinks about the ability to do some
sort of causal modeling with diagrams. Great to rely on some sort of
anecdoatal evidence, but if we are going to put things on the line with
our education then we need to be able to make some sort of falsifiable
claims about what we are doing. Can only do that through the lens of
science.

\hypertarget{claims-about-need-to-join-the-worlds-of-theory-and-pedagogy}{%
\section{Claims about need to join the worlds of theory and
pedagogy}\label{claims-about-need-to-join-the-worlds-of-theory-and-pedagogy}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \citep{davidbutlerWhyGulfMusic1997a}
\item
  \citep{klonoskiPerceptualLearningHierarchy2000} - perceptual
  hierarchy, not enough info from aural skills training
\item
  \citep{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000} - ``There is indeed a gap
  between the disciples of music cognition and aural skills training'',
  GK says that one of his goals is to bridge that gap, and he does.
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{chapter-overview}{%
\section{Chapter Overview}\label{chapter-overview}}

In this first chapter, I introduce the process of melodic dictation and
discuss factors that would presumably could play a role in taking
melodic dictation. The chapter introduces both a theoretical backgorund
and rationale for using method form both computational musicology and
congitive psychology in order ot answr quesitona bout how individuals
learn melodies. I argue that tools for understanding this best because
as we currently understand it, I see us operating in a Kuhnian normal
science where much can be learned by just using the tools in front of
us. This chapter will clearly outline the factors hypothesized to
contribute to an individual's abilit to learn melodies, incorporating
both individual and musical parameters. The chapter ends with a
discussion some of the philosophical/theoretical problems with
attempting to measure thigns like this (is it just a party trick?) and
establishes that I will be taking a more polymorphic view of
musicianship in order to answer this question.

The second chapter of my dissertation focuses on the history and current
state of aural skills pedagogy.

Tracing back its origins to the practical need to teach musical skills
back with Guido d'Arezzo, I compare and contrast the different
methodological approaches that have been used, along with their goals.

The third chapter discusses previous work that examines individual
factors thought to contribute to one's ability to perform an aural
skills task, and it will discuss results from an experiment contributing
to a discussion of how individual differences could contribute to how a
person learns melodies.

Turning away from individual differences and focusing on musical
features, in the fourth chapter I plan to discuss how music researchers
can use tools from computational musicology as predictive features of
melodies. Inspired by work from computational linguistics and
information theory, recent work in computational musicology has
developed software capable of abstracting features thought to be
important to learning melodies, such as note density and `tonalness'
(Müllensiefen, 2009). Talk a bit about how this has been also looked at
before in the music education community.

While these features have been used in large scale, exploratory studies,
work in this chapter will discuss how these features could be used in
controlled, experimental studies as a stand-in for the intuition many
music pedagogues have when determining difficulty of a melody in a
classroom setting.

In my fifth chapter, I introduce a novel corpus of over 600 digitized
melodies encoded in a queryable format. This dataset will also serve as
a valuable resource for future researchers in music, psychology, and the
digital humanities. This chapter begins with a discussion of the history
of corpus studies, noting their origin outside of music, their current
state in music, and their limitations. This chapter, encapsulating the
encoding process, the sampling criteria, and the situation of corpus
methodologies within the broader research area, will go over summary
data and also talk about how it could be used to generate hypotheses for
future experiemnts (n-gram stuff based on patterns) .

Lastly, in the final chapter, I will synthesize the previous research in
a series of melodic dictation experiments. Stimuli for the experiments
are selected based on the abstracted features of the melodies and are
manipulated as independent variables based on the previous theoretical
literature. I then model responses from the experiments using both
individual factors and musical features in order to predict how well an
individual performs in behavioral tasks similar to some of my previously
published research (Baker \& Müllensiefen, 2017). Here I also note
important caveats in scoring melodic dictation, referencing some other
of my own work on using metrics, such as edit distance (Baker \&
Shanahan, 2018), to discuss similarities between the correct answer and
an individual's attempts at dictation. Results from the final chapter
will be discussed with reference to how findings are applicable to
pedagoges in aural skills settings. Recommendations will be made
building on current conceptual frameworks (Karpinski, 2000).

\hypertarget{intro}{%
\chapter{Theoretical Background and Rationale}\label{intro}}

\hypertarget{what-is-melodic-dictation-and-why}{%
\section{What is melodic dictation? and
Why?}\label{what-is-melodic-dictation-and-why}}

Melodic dictation is the process in which an individual hears a melody,
retains it in memory, and then uses their knowledge of Western musical
notation to recreate the mental image of the melody on paper in a
limited time frame. For many, becoming proficient at this task is at the
core of developing one's aural skills
\citep{karpinskiModelMusicPerception1990}. For over a century, music
pedagogues have valued melodic dictation\footnote{In his highly
  influential book \emph{Aural Skills Acquisition: The Development of
  Listening, Reading, and Performing Skills in College-Level Musicians},
  \citet{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000} documents this sentiment
  in music pedagogy circles by highlighting poetic adages from Romantic
  composer Robert Schumann in the mid 19th century through 21st century
  music educator Charles Elliott in the opening of his book, thus
  providing concrete examples of the belief that improving one's aural
  skills, or \emph{ear}, is a highly sought after advanced skill.} which
is evident from the fact that most aural skills texts with content
devoted to honing one's listening skills have sections on melodic
dictation \citep{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000}. Additionally, any
school accredited by the National Association of Schools of Music in
North America requires students to learn this skill \citep[
§VIII.6.B.2.A]{NationalAssociationSchools2018}.

Yet despite this tradition and ubiquity, the rationales as to \emph{why}
it is important for students to learn this ability often comes from some
sort of appeal to tradition or underwhelming anecdotal evidence. The
argument tends to go that time spent learning to take melodic dictation
results in increases in near transfer abilities after an individual
acquires a certain degree of proficiency learning to take melodic
dictation. Rationales given for why students should learn melodic
dictation has even been described by Gary Karpinski as being based on
``comparatively vague aphorisms about mental relationships and
intelligent listening''
\citep[p.192]{karpinskiModelMusicPerception1990}, thus leaving the
evidence for the argument for learning to take melodic dictation not
being well supported.

Some researchers have taken a more skeptical stance and asserted that
the rationale for why we teach melodic dictation deserves more critique.
For example, Klonoski in writing about aural skills education aptly
questions ``What specific deficiency is revealed with an incorrect
response in melodic dictation settings?''
\citep{klonoskiImprovingDictationAuralSkills2006}. Earlier researchers
like Potter, in their own publications, have noted how they have been
baffled that many musicians do not actually keep up with their melodic
dictation abilities after the class ends
\citep{potterIdentifyingSucessfulDictation1990}, but presumably go on to
have successful and fulfilling musical lives. Additionally, suggesting
that people who can hear music and then are unable to write it down,
thus are unable to think \emph{in} music
\citep{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000}, seems somewhat exclusionary
to musical cultures that do not depend on any sort of written notation.

Though despite this skepticism towards the topic, melodic dictation
remains at the forefront of many aural skills classrooms. The act of
becoming better at this skill may or may not lead to large in increases
in far transfer of ability, but used as a pedagogical tool, teaching
students to take melodic dictation brings with it concepts that have
been deemed relevant to the core of undergraduate music training. While
there has not been extensive research on melodic dictation research in
recent years-- in fact \citet{paneyEffectDirectingAttention2016} notes
that since 2000, only four studies were published that directly examined
melodic dictation-- this skill set sits on the border between literature
on learning, melodic perception, memory, and music theory pedagogy.
Understanding and modeling exactly how melodic dictation works remains
as a untapped watershed of knowledge for the field of music theory,
music education, and music perception and is deserving of much more
attention.

In this chapter I examine literature both directly and indirectly
related to melodic dictation by first reviewing the prominent four step
model put forth by Karpinski in order to establish and describe what
melodic dictation is. After describing his model, I then critique what
this model lacks and clarify what is missing by providing a taxonomy of
parameters that presumably would contribute to an individual's ability
to take melodic dictation. Using this taxonomy, I then review relevant
literature and assert that the next steps forward in understanding how
melodic dictation works come from examing the process both
experimentally and computationally. It has been nearly two decades since
\emph{Aural Skills Acquistion} was first published as the first major
step to finally build a bridge between the field of music cognition and
music theory pedagogy
\citep{davidbutlerWhyGulfMusic1997a, karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000, klonoskiPerceptualLearningHierarchy2000}
and as with all public works, they need to be maintained?\footnote{Yes I
  know this is an awful metaphor and I will change it eventually}

\hypertarget{describing-melodic-dictation}{%
\subsection{Describing Melodic
Dictation}\label{describing-melodic-dictation}}

Much of the foundational theoretical work on the topic of melodic
dictation comes from Gary Karpinski. Summarized most recently in his
\emph{Aural Skills Acquisition}
\citep{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000}-- though first presented in
an earlier article \citep{karpinskiModelMusicPerception1990}-- Karpinski
proposes a four-step model of melodic dictation.\footnote{This four
  stage process sythesizes earlier research where in Karpinski 1990 he
  notes two other models of melodic dictation, one from Rogers where he
  says there are 2 processes, another from Thomas who says there are 15}

The four steps of Karpinski's model include

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  Hearing
\item
  Short Term Melodic Memory
\item
  Musical Understanding
\item
  Notation
\end{enumerate}

and occur as a looping process depicted in Figure 1. The model is
discussed extensively in both this original article
\citep{karpinskiModelMusicPerception1990} and throughout the third
chapter in his book \citep{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000}.

{[}FULL SCAN HERE EVENTUALLY OF FIGURE 1{]}

\hypertarget{figure-1-stand-in}{%
\paragraph{FIGURE 1 STAND IN}\label{figure-1-stand-in}}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  Hear (along with Portion B)
\item
  Remember (Portion A only)
\item
  Understand
\end{enumerate}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Temporal

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Pulse
  \item
    Meter
  \item
    Rhythmic proportions
  \end{itemize}
\item
  Pitch

  \begin{itemize}
  \tightlist
  \item
    Tonic
  \item
    Scale degree of starting pitch
  \item
    Scale degree of subsequent pitches

    \begin{itemize}
    \tightlist
    \item
      Stepwise Groups
    \item
      Each skip treated as new starting pitch
    \end{itemize}
  \end{itemize}
\end{itemize}

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\setcounter{enumi}{3}
\tightlist
\item
  Notate
\end{enumerate}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  What has been heard, remembered, understood
\end{itemize}

Karpinski's \textbf{hearing} stage involves the initial perceptions of
the sound at the psychoacoustical level and the listener's
\emph{attention} to the incoming musical information. If the listener is
not actively engaging in the task because of factors such as ``boredom,
lack of discipline, test anxiety, attention deficit disorder, or any
number of other causes'' then any further processes later down the model
will be detrimentally effected. Karpinski notes that these types of
interferences are normally ``beyond the traditional jurisdiction of
aural skills instruction'', but I will later argue that the concept of
willful attention, when re-conceptualized as working memory, may
actually play a larger role in the melodic dictation process than is
claimed here.

The \textbf{short-term melodic memory} stage in his process is where
musical material is held in active memory. From Figure 1 it appears that
the stage is not conceptualized as an active process where something
like active rehearsal would occur, but rather just consists soley of
passive mental representation. Though Karpinski does not posit any sort
of active process in the short term melodic memory stage, he does
suggest there are two separate memory encoding mechanisms, one for
contour, and one for pitch. He arrives at these two mechanisms by using
both empirical qualitative interview evidece as well as noting
literature from music perception that supports this claim for contour
\citep{dowlingScaleContourTwo1978, dewittRecognitionNovelMelodies1986}
and literature suggesting that memory for melodic material is dependant
on enculturation
\citep{ouraMemoryMelodiesSubjects1988, handelListeningIntroductionPerception1989, dowlingExpectancyAttentionMelody1990}.
Since its publication in 2000, this area of research has expanded with
other reearchers also demonstrating the effects of musical acculturation
via exposure
\citep{eerolaExpectancySamiYoiks2009, stevensMusicPerceptionCognition2012, pearceAuditoryExpectationInformation2012}.

In describing the short term melodic memory stage, Karpinksi also
details two processes that he believes to be nesscary for this part of
melodic dictation: extractive listening and chunking. Noting that there
is probably some sort of capacity limit to the perception of musical
material, citing Miller \citeyearpar{millerMagicalNumberSeven1956},
Karpinski explains how each strategy might be used. Extractive listening
is the process in which someone dictating the melody will selectivly
remember only a small part of the melody in order to lessen the load on
memory. Chunking is the process in which smaller musical elements can be
fused together in order to expand how much information can be actively
held in memory and manipulated. The concept of chunking is very helpful
as a pedagogical tool, but as detailed below, is a complicated concept
to pin down how it works.

After some musical material is extracted, then represented in memory,
the next step in the process is \textbf{musical understanding}. At this
point in the dictation the dictator needs to take the extracted musical
material that is represented in memory and the use their music theoretic
knowledge in order to comprehend any sort of hierarchical relationships
between notes, common rhythmic groupings, or any sorts of tonal
functions. This is the point in the process where solimization of either
or both pitch and rhythm, and musical material might be understood in
terms of relative pitch. In the model solimization takes place later,
but it is worth questioning if it is possible to dissacociate relative
pitch relations from the qualia of the tones themselves
\citep{arthurPerceptualStudyScaledegree2018}. For Karpinski, the more
quickly what is represented in musical memory can be understood, the
more quickly it can then be tranlated at the final step of notation.

\textbf{Notation}, the final step of the dictation loop, requires that
the individual taking the notation have sufficient knowledge of Western
musical notation so that they are able to translate their musical
understanding into written notation. This last step is ripe for errors
and has proved problematic for researchers attempting to study dictation
\citep{taylorStrategiesMemoryShort1983, klonoskiImprovingDictationAuralSkills2006}.
It is also worth highlighting is that it is difficult to notate musical
material if the individual who is dictating does not have the requisite
musical category and knowledge for the sounds. Lack of this knowledge
will limit an individual's ability to translate what is in their short
term melodic memory into notation, even if it is perfectly represented
in memory!

The final parts of the chapter, Karpinski notes that other factors like
\textbf{tempo}, the \textbf{length and number of playings}, and the
\textbf{duration between playings} will also play a role in determining
how an individual will perform on a melodic dictation. While this
framework can help illuminate this cognitive process and help pedagogues
understand how to best help their students, presumably there are many
more factors that contribute to this process. The model as it stands is
not detailed enough for explanatory purposes and lacks in two areas that
would need to be expanded if this model were to be explored
experimentally and computationally.

First, having a single model for melodic dictation assumes that all
individuals are likely to engage in this sequential ordering of events.
This could in fact be the case\footnote{And in his Figure 3.1 he does
  caption it as an \emph{idealized} dictation process}, but there is
research from music perception
\citep{goldmanImprovisationExperiencePredicts2018a} and other areas of
memory psychology such as work on expert chess players
\citep{laneChessKnowledgePredicts2018} that suggests that as individuals
gain more expertise, their processing and categorization of information
changes. Additionally, different individuals will most likely have
different experiences dictating melodies based on their own past
listening experience, an area that Karpinski refers to when citing
literature on musical enculturation based on statistical exposure. The
model does not have any flexibility in terms of individual differences.

Second, the model presumes the same sequence of events for every melody.
As a general heurstic for communicating the process, this process is
generalizable, but intuition would suggest that treating all melodies
the same is not going to lead to having a robust model. For example, on
page 103, Karpinski suggest that two listenings should be adequate for a
listener with few to no chunking skills to listen to be able to dictate
a melody of twelve to twenty notes. This process might generalize to
many tonal melodies, but presumably different strategies in recognition
would be involved in dictating the two melodies of equal length shown in
Figure 2 and 3.

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics{img/musicalexamples/MMD_Figure2-1.png} 

}

\caption{Melodies of Equal Length}\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-1}
\end{figure}
\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics{img/musicalexamples/MMD_Figure3-1.png} 

}

\caption{Melodies of Equal Length}\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-1}
\end{figure}

Presumably different people with different levels of abilities will
perform differently on different melodies and while helpful as a
pedaogogical tool, this one size-fits-all approach to melodic dictation
is not robust. This agnosticism for both variability for melodic and
individual differences serves as a stepping off point for this study. In
order to have a more through understanding of melodic dictation, there
needs to be a model that is able to accomodate the exhaustive
differences at both the individual and musical levels. Additionally, the
model should be able to be operationalized so that it can be explored in
both experimental and computational settings. By explicitly stating
variables thought to contribute and noting how melodic dictation works,
it will give the community a better sense of the melodic dictation
process, which will then enable a more through understanding of melodic
perception and subsequently allow for better teaching practices in aural
skills classrooms.

At this point, it is worth stepping back and noting that the sheer
amount of variables at play here is cumbersome and almost haphazard. In
order to better understand and organize factors thought to contribute to
this process, it would advantagous for future research to taxonomize the
multitude of features thought to contribute to melodic dictation. In
doing this, it wil allow for a clearer picture of what factors might
contribute and what literatures to explore in order to learn more about
them.

The taxonomy that I propose appears in Figure 4 and bifucates the
possible factors thought to affect an individual's ability to take
melodic dictation into two categories: \textbf{individual} parameters
and \textbf{musical} parameters. Each of these two categories can then
be split again into \textbf{cognitive} and \textbf{environmental}
parameters as well as \textbf{structural} and \textbf{experimental
factors} respectively. Below I expand on what these categories entail,
then explore each in depth.

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics[width=18.9in]{img/taxonomy4} 

}

\caption{Taxonomy of Factors Contributing to Aural Skills}\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-2}
\end{figure}

The \textbf{individual} parameters split broadly into \textbf{cognitive
factors}, or factors of people that are relatively consistent with
people over time and could be understood as largely being governed by
\emph{nature}. The other category of this division consist of factors
that change with training and exposure and could be understand as
largely being governed by \emph{nurture}. This second set of parameters
are the \textbf{environmental} factors. These categories are not
deterministic, nor exclusive, and almost inevitably interact with one
another.\footnote{Could footnote this interaction and talk about how AP
  people generally need to have genetic predisposition, fixed pitch
  instrumetn in house, and start at early age CITATION FOR THAT?}

For example, it would be possible to imagine an individual with higher
cognitive ability, the oppertunity to have a high degree of training
early on in their musical career, and personality traits that are
associated with higher learning aptitudes. This individual's musical
perception abilities might be markedly different than someone with lower
cognitive abilities, no opertunity for individualized training, come
from a lower socio-economic status, and not have a general inclination
to even take music lessons. This variability at the individual level
might then lead to differences in their ability to take melodic
dictation.

Complementing the individual differences, there would also be
differences at the \textbf{musical} level which in turn divides into two
categories. On one hand exists the \textbf{structural aspects} of the
melody itself. These are aspects of the melody that would remain
invariant when written down on a score. Parameters in this category
would include features generated by the interval structure of the
pitches over time that allow the melody to be categorically distinct
from other melodies. These structural features are then complimented by
the \textbf{experimental features} which are emergent properties of the
structrual relation of the pitches over time based on performance
pratice choices. Examples of these parameters would include, key, tempo,
note density, timbral qualities, and the amount of times a melody is
played during a melodic dictation or emergent properties like a melody's
tonalness as computed through various metrics. This division is not an
exhaustive, categorical divide. One could imagine exceptions to these
rules where a melody is tranformed to the minor key, ornamented, and
then played with extenive rubato and experienced as a phenomenologically
similiar experience.

Given all of these parameters that could contribute to the melodic
dictation process, the remainder of this chapter will exploring
literature using this taxonomy as a guide. The chapter conculdes with a
reflection on operationalizing each of these factors and problems that
can arise in modeling and reminds the reader about the dangers of
statistical reification. These are important to note since from an
empirical standpoint, both the task as well as the process of melodic
dictation as depicted by Karpinksi resemble something that could be
operationalized as both an experiment, as well as a computational model
and if understood this way will be subjectd to the same types of
critique.

\hypertarget{individual-factors}{%
\section{Individual Factors}\label{individual-factors}}

\hypertarget{cognitive}{%
\subsection{Cognitive}\label{cognitive}}

Research from cognitive psychology suggests that individuals differ in
their perceptual and cognitive abilities in ways that are both stable
throughout a lifetime and are not easily influened by short term
traning. When investigated on a large scale, these abilities-- such as
general intelligence or working memory capacity-- predict a wealth of
human behavior on a large scale ranging from longevity, annual income,
ability to deal with stressful life events, and even the onset of
Alzheimer's disease
\citep{ritchieIntelligenceAllThat2015, unsworthAutomatedVersionOperation2005}.
Given the strength and generality of these predictors, it is worth
investigating the extent that these abilities might contribute when
investigating any modeling of melodic dictation. It is imporant to
understand the degree to which these cognitive factors might influence
aural skills abilities in order to ensure that the types of assesments
that are given in music schools validly measure abilities that
individuals have the ability to improve upon. If it is the case that
much of the variance in a student's aural skills grades can be
attributed to something the student has little control over, this would
call for a serious upheaval of the current model of aural skills
teaching and assesment.

Recently there has been a surge of interest in this area \footnote{DO I
  CITE THINGS HERE LIKE THAT WORK OF NANCY ROGERS, LEIGH VAN HANDLE, THE
  UTAH GUY, GARY KARPINSKIS ICMPC, THE FORM AT SMPC} which could be
attributed to the fact that educators are picking up on the fact that
cognitive abilities are powerful predictors and need to be understood
since they inevitably will play a role in pedagogical settings.

Before diving into a discussion regarding differences in cognitive
ability, I should note that sometimes ideas regarding differences in
cognitive ability been hostily received (citation against people talking
about IQ) and for good reasons. Research in this area can and has been
taken advantage to further specious ideologies, but often arguments that
assert meaningful differences in cognitive abilities between groups are
founded on statistical misunderstandings and have been debunked in other
literature \citep{gouldMismeasureMan1996}. Considering that, it then
becomes very difficult to maintain a scientific commitment to the theory
of evolution \citep{darwinOriginSpecies1859} and not expect variation in
all aspects of human behavior, with cognition falling within that
umbrella. Even given this statement, measuring a theoretical construct
such as an aspect of cognition desereves to be examined since the
ability to validly and reliably measure an individual's cognitive
ability is a fundmental assumption of this study.

\hypertarget{measuring-intelligence}{%
\subsection{Measuring Intelligence}\label{measuring-intelligence}}

Attempting to measure and quantify aspects of cognition go back over a
century. Even before concepts of intelligence were posited by Charles
Spearman and his conception of \emph{g}
\citep{spearmanGeneralIntelligenceObjectively1904}, scientists were
interested in establishing links between an individual's mental
capacities and some sort of physical manifestation. The origins of this
area of research have been critiqued on the basis that the early work
implicitly tended to validate preconceptualized beliefs on the
superiority of certain groups of peoples and used methodlogies that
today would be considered risible.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  For example, BROCA thought he could get at intelligence by measuring
  skulls AND MORTON
\item
  Or Spitzka who post hoc measured eminance and brain size page 127
\end{itemize}

While not immediatly relevant to current thinking in cognitive
psychology, work from both Broca and XXX was continued by the American
herediterian school of IQ (page 187 in Gould) and the early research
done by Alfred Binet on IQ took inspiration from Broca. This lineage of
ideas has often been used to tarnish systematic investigations into
differences in cognitive ability, which from their outset were to
initially funded by the French governement to identify children
struggling in the classroom so that they could be given special
attention.

Bient was the initial developer of the idea of an intelligence quotient
or IQ\footnote{divide mental age by chronological age then multiply by
  100} and provided one of the first ways to attempt to quantify a
theoretical concept that was not capable of being manifested in the
physical world. It was also around the same time that researchers like
Cyril Burt and Charles Spearmean began developing their new theories of
intelligence founded on the reification of factor analysis. In
developing a battry of tests whose performance on one subtest could
often reliabily predict performance on another-- a manifestation
referred to as the postive manifold-- Spearman and Burt put forth a
separate conception of intelligence based on the ability to solve
problems without any sort of background information and referred to this
ability a \emph{g} for general intellgience.

Though seemingly unrelated to the current state of thinking about
cognitive abilities, Binet's and Spearman's ideologies about what
intelligence is and how to measure it still represent two of the larger
schools on cognitive ability. On one hand their idea that cognitive
abilities are based upon a steady growth of incoming information that
someone is able to manipulate once they retrieve from long term memor;
on the other hand there is a school of thought that there is some sort
of measureable construct, \emph{g} that aids in the process of solving
problems that do not depend on any sort of contextuxal information.
Conceptualizing cognitive ability as these two different constructs
inevitably leads to different types of measurements and subsequently
what these constructs are then able to predict in terms of human
behavior.

Without detailing entire histories of both lines of thought, Binet's
conceptulization manifested into an argument for general crystallized
intelligence or \emph{Gc}, or the ability to solve problems based on
previously acquired skills. Spearman and Burt's ideas about \emph{g}
school reflect a belief that individuals have some sort of latent
cognitive ability to draw on to perform mental tasks. The cognitive
psychology literature has noted that \emph{g} often shares a
statistically equivalent relationship to idea conceptualized as general
fluid intelligence \emph{Gf}, or the ability to solve problems in novel
situations Cattell, 1971; Horn, 1994). This distinction between
\emph{Gf} and \emph{Gc} is different than that of \emph{g}, but again it
should be noted that \emph{Gf} and \emph{g} share a statistically
identical relationship Matzke, Dolan, and Molenaar (2010). These
conceptions of intelligenec and cognitive ability aslo differ from more
current theories that sythesize these previous areas of research
\citep{kovacsProcessOverlapTheory2016}.

Even though both of these constructs are powerful predictors on a large
scale and do predict things like educational success, income, and even
life expectancy \citep{ritchieIntelligenceAllThat2015}-- even when other
variables like socioeconomic status are held constant. Yet despite this,
only conceptualizing cognitive abilities in terms of intelligence does
not fully explain the diversity of human cognition.

Another large area in the field of cognitive psychology is the area of
working memory capacity. In addition to concepts of intelligence, be it
\emph{Gf} or \emph{Gc}, the working memory capacity literature also is
directly relevant to work on melodic dictation for reasons discussed
below.

\hypertarget{working-memory-capacity}{%
\subsection{Working Memory Capacity}\label{working-memory-capacity}}

Working memory is one of the most investigated concepts in the cognitive
psychology literature. According to Nelson Cowan, the term working
memory generally refers to

\begin{quote}
the relativly small amount of information that one can hold in mind,
attend to, or, technically speaking, maintain in a rapidly accesible
state at one time. The term working is mean to indicate that mental work
requires the use of such informaiton. (p.1)
\citep{cowanWorkingMemoryCapacity2005}
\end{quote}

The term, like most concepts in science, does not have an exact
definition, nor does it have a definitive method of measurement. While
there is no universally recognized first use of the term, researchers
began to postulate that there was some sort of system that mediated
incoming sensory information with the world with the information in long
term storage using modular models of memory in the mid-twentieth
century. Summarized in \citep{cowanWorkingMemoryCapacity2005}, one of
the first modal models of memory was proposed by
\citep{broadbentPerceptionCommunication1958} and later expanded by
\citep{atkinsonHUMANMEMORYPROPOSED1968}. As seen in FIGURE X, both
models here posit incoming information that is then put into some sort
of limited capacity store. These modal models were then expanded on by
Baddeley and Hitch \citep{baddeleyWorkingMemory1974} in their 1974
chapter with the name \emph{Working Memory}, where they proposed a
system with an central executive module that was able to carry out
active maintenance and rehearsal of information that could be stored in
either a phonological store for sounds or a visual sketchpad for images.

\begin{figure}

{\centering \includegraphics[width=9.81in]{img/wm_models} 

}

\caption{Schematics of Models of Working Memory taken from Cowan, 2005}\label{fig:unnamed-chunk-3}
\end{figure}

Later revisions of their model also incorporated an episodic buffer
\citep{baddeleyEpisodicBufferNew2000} where the modules were explicitly
depicted as being able to interface with long term memory in the
rehearsal processes. The model has even been expanded upon by other
researchers throughout its lifetime. The most relevant to this study is
by \citep{berzWorkingMemoryMusic1995}, who postulated adding a musical
rehearsal loop to the already established phonological loop and visual
spatial sketchpad. While Berz is most likely correct in asserting that
the nature of storing and processing musical information is different to
that of words or pictures and there has been experimental evidence to
suggest this \citep{williamsonMusiciansNonmusiciansShortterm2010} that
has been interpreted in favor of multiple loops
\citep{wollnerAttentionalFlexibilityMemory2016} , it does introduce the
theoretical problem of multiple stores which has been addressed by other
researchers.

In addressing the problem of explicitly stating which rehearsal loops do
and do not exist, Nelson Cowan proposed a separate model
\citep{cowanEvolvingConceptionsMemory1988, cowanWorkingMemoryCapacity2005}
dubbed the Embedded Process Model which do not claim the existence of
any domain specific module (e.g.~positing a phonological loop, visual
spatial sketchpad) but is rather based on an exhaustive model that did
away with the problem of asserting specific buffers for new types of
information.

In Cowan's own words comparing his model from that of Baddeley:

\begin{quote}
The aim was to see if the description of the processing structure could
be exhaustive, even if not complete, in detail. By analogy, consider two
descriptions of a house that has not been explored completely. Perhaps
it has only been examined from the outside. Baddeley's (1986) approach
to modeling can be compared with hypothesizing that there is a kitchen,
a bathroom, two equal-size square bedrooms, and a living room. This is
not a bad guess, but it does not rule out the possibllity that there
actually are extra bedrooms or bathroom, that the bedroom space is
apportioned into two rooms very different in size, or that other rooms
exist in the house. Cowan's (1988) apporach, on the other hand, can be
compared with hypothesizing that the house includes food preparating
quarters, sleeping quarters, batroom/toilet quarters, and other living
quarters. It is meant to be exhaustive in that nothing was left out,
even though it is noncommital on the details of some of the rooms. p.42
Cowan, 2005.
\end{quote}

The system is depicted in the bottom tier of TABLE X, and conceptualizes
the limited amount of information that is readily available as being in
the focus of attention, with activated sensory and categorical features
of what is in the focus of attention to be accessible nearby. Moving
further from the locus of attention is long term memory, whose content
can be turned to by using the central executive to access
non-immediately available information. In contrast to the modular
approaches, Cowan's framework does not require the researchers to
specify exactly how and where each the incoming information is being
stored which makes it advantageous for studying complex stimuli such as
music and melodies.

In addition to having multiple frameworks for studying working memory
capacity, there is also the problem of limits to the working memory
system, often referred to as the working memory capacity. Most
popularized by Miller in his famous \citep{millerMagicalNumberSeven1956}
speech turned article, Miller suggests out of jest that the number 7
might be worth investigating, which has been used as a point of
reference for many researchers since then. It is worth nothing that
Miller has since gone on record as noting that using 7 (plus or minus 2)
was a rhetorical device used to string together his speech
\citep{millerHistoryPsychologyAutobiography1989}. Nevertheless, while
the number seven is most likely a red herring, it did inspire a large
amount of research on capacity limits. In the decades since the number 7
has been reduced to about 4 \citep{cowanMagicalMysteryFour2010} and
research around capacity limits has been investigated using a variety of
novel tasks, most noteable the complex span task CITATION.\\
When used as predictors in both higher and lower cognitive tasks,
measures of working memory capacity predict performance well and
additionally tend to be stable across a lifetime
\citep{unsworthAutomatedVersionOperation2005}.

Given its predictive strength as well as its direct similarity to tasks
of melodic dictation, a in depth look at the literature is warranted.\\
Clearly an individual's ability to take in sensory information, maintain
it in memory, actively carry out other tasks (like notating said melody)
are almost identical to tasks of working memory capacity. Before
venturing onward from this striking parallel, tasks investigating
working memory capacity differ from melodic dictation tasks in a few key
ways. The first is that musical information is always sequential: a
melodic dictation task would never require the student to recall the
pitches back in scrambled orders. Serial order recall is an important
characteristic in the scoring and analyzing of working memory tasks
\citep{conwayWorkingMemorySpan2005}, but musical tones do not appear in
random order and are normally in discernable chunks as discussed by
Karpinski\citep{karpinskiAuralSkillsAcquisition2000}. The use of chunks
is pervasive in much of the memory literature, but often is used as more
of a heuristic to help explain that information in the environment and
why it is often grouped together. Of the problems with chunking, most
are related to music and have relevance to melodic dictation. Below I
review the problems with chunking noted by Cowan
\citep{cowanWorkingMemoryCapacity2005}, and any pertitant music
psychology literature.

\begin{enumerate}
\def\labelenumi{\arabic{enumi}.}
\tightlist
\item
  \emph{Chunks may have a hierarchical organization.} Tonal music has
  historically been understood to be hierarchical
  \citep{krumhanslCognitiveFoundationsMusical2001, meyerEmotionMeaningMusic1956, schenkerFreieSatz1935}
  with the study for memory for tones being confounded by some pitches
  being undestood by their relation to structurally more important
  tones.
\item
  \emph{The working memory load may be reduced as working memory shifts
  between levels in hierarchy.} If an individual understands a chunk to
  be something such as a major triad, the load on working memory would
  be less since it that information could be understood as a singular
  chunk.
\item
  \emph{Chunks may be the endpoints of a continuum of associations.}
  Pairing a group of tones together that might be functionally anomolous
  like\ldots{}
\item
  \emph{Chunks may include asymmetrical information.} More tonal
  possibilities are possible from a stable note like tonic or dominant,
  whereas in a tonal context, a raised scale degree \#\(\hat{4}\) when
  understood in a functional context would be taken as having stricter
  transitional probabilities (\#\(\hat{4} \rightarrow \hat{5}\)).
\item
  \emph{There may be a complex network of associations.} If a set of
  pitches sounds like a similar set of pitches from long term memory ,
  the information coming in can not be understood as being separate
  units of working memory.
\item
  \emph{Chunks may increase in size rapidly over time.} Three tones that
  are seemingly unrelated when incoming like E4, G5, C5 might enter
  sensory perception as three different tones, but then be fused
  together when they are understood as one chunk-- a first inverstion
  major triad.
\item
  \emph{Information in working memory may benefit from rapid storage in
  long term memory.} Given the amount of patterns that an individual
  learns and can understand, as soon as something is fused, it could be
  encoded in long term memory, especially if there is a salient feature
  in the incoming melodic information such as the immediate recognition
  of a mode or cadence.
\end{enumerate}

The points by Cowan are important to acknowledge in that it it not
possible to directly lift work and paradigms from working memory
capcacity to work in music perception. That said, the enormous amount of
theoretical frameworks put forward by the working memory liteature when
understood in conjunction with theories in music psychology such as
implicit statistical learning \citep{saffranStatisticalLearningTone1999}
can provide for new, fruitul theories. Past reserachers have noted the
strength and predictive abilities of literature from the working memory
capacity as aiding research in music perception. In ending his article
positing a musical memory loop to be annexed to the Baddley and Hitch
modular model of working memory, Berz \citep{berzWorkingMemoryMusic1995}
captures the power of this concept in the last sentence of his article
and warns future reserachers that

\begin{quote}
Individual differences portrayed in some music aptitude tests may
{[}sic{]} represent not talent or musical intelligence but ability,
reflecting differences in working memory capacity. p.~362
\end{quote}

Berz's assertion has not been exhausivly tested since first published in
1995, but the subject of music, memory, and cognitive abilities has been
the focus of research of both psychologists and musicologists alike.
Below I survey literature bordering on both music, as well as cognitive
abiltity.

\hypertarget{working-memory-capacity-and-music}{%
\subsubsection{Working Memory Capacity and
Music}\label{working-memory-capacity-and-music}}

Of the papers in the music science literature that specifically
investigates working memory, each uses different measures, though but
all tend to converge on two general findings. The first is that there
are some sort of enhanced memory capabilities in individuals with
musical training. The second is that working memory capacity, however it
is measured, often plays a significant role in musical tasks. Evidence
for the first point appears most convincingly in a recent meta analyses
by Talamini and colleagues \citep{talaminiMusiciansHaveBetter2017} who
demonstrated via three separate meta-analyses that musicians outperform
their non-musical counterparts on tasks dealing with long-term memory,
short-term memory, as well as working memory. The authors also noted
that the effects were the strongest in working memory tasks where the
stimuli were tonal, which again suggests an advantage of exposure and
understanding of the hierarchical organization of musical materials. In
this meta-analyss and others investigating music and cognitive ability,
it is important to be reminded that the direction of causality still
from these studies cannot be determined using these statistical
methodologies. While it might seem that musical training tends to lead
to these increases, it is also possible that higher functioning
individuals will self select into musical activities. Even if there is
no seletion bias in engaging with musical activity it also remains a
possiblity that of the people that do engage with musical activity, the
higher functioning individuals will be less likely to quit over a
lifetime.

In terms of musical performance abilities, working memory capacity has
also been shown to be a significant predictor. Kopiez and Lee suggested
that working memory capacity should to contribute to sight reading tasks
based on research where they found measures of working memory capacity,
as measured by a matrix span task, to significantly correlated with many
of their measures hypothesized to be related to sight reading ability in
pianists at lower difficulty grading
\citep{kopiezDynamicModelSkills2006, kopiezGeneralModelSkills2008}.

Following up on this work on sight reading, Meinz and Hambrick
\citep{meinzDeliberatePracticeNecessary2010} found that working memory
capacity, as measured by an operation span task, a reading span task,
rotation span task, and a matrix span task was able to predict a small
amount of variance \(R^2=.074(0.067)\) above and beyond that of
deliberate practice alone \(R^2=.451(.441)\) in a sight-reading task.
More recently, two studies looking at specific sub groups of musicians
have shown working memory capacity to significantly contribute to models
of performances on musical tasks related to novel stimuli.
\citep{wollnerAttentionalFlexibilityMemory2016} found that although no
differences were found between pianists and conductors in measures of
working memory capacity as measured via a set of span tasks, conductors
showed superior performance in their attention flexibility. Following up
on this line of research \citep{nicholsScoreOneJazz2018} used the same
battery of working memory tasks and found that jazz musicians excelled
over their classically trained counterparts in a task which required
them to hear notes and reproduce them on the piano. The authors also
noted that of their working memory battery, based on standard operation
span methods \citep{engleWorkingMemoryCapacity2002}, that the auditory
dictation condition scored surprisingly low and further research might
consider further work on dictation abilities. Additionally
\citep{colleyWorkingMemoryAuditory2018} found that working memory
capacity, as measured by a backwards digit span and operation span, to
be successful predictors in a tapping task requiring sensory motor
prediction abilities. As mentioned above, each of these tasks where
working memory was a significant predictor of performance occured where
the task involved active enagement with novel musical material.

The growing evidence in this field suggests that the advantage of
working memory capacity to be greatest in both musically trained people,
dealing with novel information, using tonal materials. Since all three
of these factors are related to melodic dictation, it would seem
sensible to continue to include these measures in tasks of musical
perception and continue Berz's assertion that research in music
percetion could inadvertently be picking up on individual differences in
working memory abilities.

\hypertarget{general-intelligence}{%
\subsection{General Intelligence}\label{general-intelligence}}

As discussed above, the idea of IQ or intelligence has a long history
that is bothgood and bad. When used as a predictor in models it often
serves to predict traits that society values like longevity and general
income so given its ability to predict in more domain general settings,
surveying literature where it applies to musical activity is a worthy
task. Below I use the term intelligence as a catch all term to avoid the
historical context of IQ and specify where availible which measure was
actually used. Before surveying the literature here it is also worth
noting that reserach on music and intelligence is not as developed as
some of the larger studies looking at intelligence which provides
problems for both establishing causal directionality, as well as
controlling for other factors like self theories of ability,
socioeconomic status, and personality
\citep{mullensiefenInvestigatingImportanceSelftheories2015}.

\hypertarget{papers-that-suggest-gf-plays-a-role}{%
\subsubsection{Papers that suggest GF plays a
role}\label{papers-that-suggest-gf-plays-a-role}}

As reviewed in \citet{schellenbergMusicNonmusicalAbilities2017}, both
children and adults who engage in musical activity tend to score higher
on general measurses of intelligence than their non-musical peers
(Gibson, Folley and Park, 2009; Hille et al., 2011; Schellenberg, 2011a;
Schellenberg and Mankarious, 2012) with the duration of training sharing
a relationship with the extent of the increases in IQ (Degé, Kubicek and
Schwarzer, 2011a; Degé, Wehrum, Stark and Schwarzer, 2015; Corrigall and
Schellenberg, 2015; Corrigall, Schellenberg and Misura, 2013;
Schellenberg, 2006). Though many of these studies are correlational,
they also have made attempts to control for confounding variables like
socio-economic status and parental involvment in out of school
activities. (Corrigall et al., 2013; Degé et al., 2011a; Schellenberg,
2006, 2011a, 2011b; Schellenberg and Mankarious, 2012). Schellenberg
notes the problem of smaller sample sizes in his review (Corrigall and
Trainor, 2011; Parbery-Clark et al., 2011; Strait, Parbery-Clark,
Hittner and Kraus, 2012) in that studies that are typically smaller do
not reach statistical significance. Schellenberg also references
evidence that when professional musicians are matched with non-musicians
from the general population there do not seem to be these associations
(CITE). Schellenberg's review suggests the current state of the
literature points to support the hypothesis that higher functioning kids
that take music lessons and they tend to stay in lessons longer.
Additionally, Schellenberg remains skeptical of any sorts of causal
factors regarding increases in IQ (e.g., François et al., 2013; Moreno
et al., 2009) noting methodlogical problems like how short exposure
times were in studies claiming increases in effects or researchers who
not holding pre-exisiting cognitive abilitis constant (Mehr, Schachner,
Katz and Spelke, 2013).

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \citep{corrigallMusicTrainingCognition2013}
\item
  \citep{corrigallMusicTrainingCognition2013a}
\item
  \citep{swaminathanRevisitingAssociationMusic2017}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{environmental}{%
\subsection{Environmental}\label{environmental}}

Standing in contrast to factors that individuals do not have a much
control over such as the size of their working memory capacity or
factors related to their general fluid intelligence, most of the factors
we believe contribute to someone's ability to take melodic dictation
have to deal with factors related to training and the environment. In
fact, one of the tacit assumptions of getting a music degree revolves
around the belief that with deliberate and attentive practice, that an
individual is able to move from novice to expertise in their chosen
domain. The idea that time invested results in beneficial returns is
probably best exemplified by work produced by
\citet{ericssonRoleDeliberatePractice1993} that suggests that
performance at more elite levels results from deliberate practice. Below
I review literature that supports this argument, since it's no doubt
that someone has to engage in something to be good at it.

\hypertarget{musical-training}{%
\subsection{Musical Training}\label{musical-training}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Papers that suggest practicing makes you better?
\item
  It almost seems redundant to review literature in support of music
  practice leading to better results.
\item
  List of those papers here
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{aural-training}{%
\subsection{Aural Training}\label{aural-training}}

In additon to individuals differeng in their general musical abilities--
however they are defined-- individuals also differ in their abilities at
the level of their aural skills. Though not heavily researched in the
past few decades \citep{furbyEffectsPeerTutoring2016}, there has been
specific research looking at explaining how people do in aural skills
examinatons. \citet{harrisonEffectsMusicalAptitude1994} examined the
effect of aural skills training on undergraduate students by creating a
latent variable model investigating musical aptitude, academic ability,
musical expertise, and motivation to study music in a sample of 142
undergraduate students and claimed to be able to explain 73\% of the
variance in aural skills abilities using the variables measured. Work
from Colin Wright's dissertation found that \ldots{}
\citep{wrightInvestigatingAuralCase2016}

These are things that people have suggested people trying to do : As
noted in \citet{furbyEffectsPeerTutoring2016}, researchers in the past
have suggested a variety of techniques for improving their abilities in
melodic dictation by isolating rhythm and melody
{[}\citet{bantonRoleVisualAuditory1995};
\citet{blandSightSingingMelodic1984};
\citet{rootMethodicalSightSingingLessons1931}; WILSON{]}, listening
attentively to the melody before writing
\citep{bantonRoleVisualAuditory1995}, recognizing patterns
\citep{bantonRoleVisualAuditory1995, blandSightSingingMelodic1984, rootMethodicalSightSingingLessons1931}
and silently vocalizing while dictating
\citep{klonoskiImprovingDictationAuralSkills2006}.

\hypertarget{sight-singing}{%
\subsection{Sight Singing}\label{sight-singing}}

Often described as the other side of the same coin of melodic dictation,
sight singing is an area of music pedagogy research that has had sparse
attention paid to it given its prevelance in school of music curricula.
Recently \citep{fournierCognitiveStrategiesSightsinging2017a} catalouged
and categorized 14 different sub categories into four larger main
cateogories while also providing commenatary on some of the current
state of aural skills. Of the four large categories, they group them
into reading mechanisms, sight singing, readings skills acquiskiton, and
learnign support.

FIX HERE

The authors note a line of research that has documented that university
students are often unprepared to sight-read single lines of music
(Asmus, 2004; Davidson, Scripp \& Welsh, 1988; Fournier, 2015; Thompson,
2004; Vujović \& Bogunović, 2012) even though it is, like dictation,
thought of as a means for deeper musical understanding. (DeBellis, 2005;
Karpinski, 2000; Ottman, 1956; Rogers, 2004; Scripp, 1995; Scripp \&
Davidson, 1994) The authors of Fournier et. al also note that
sight-reading has been an active area of research due to the often
reported relationship that performance on sight reading often predicts
several studies have shown links between academic success in
sight-singing and predictors such as entrance tests (Harrison, 1987,
1990, 1991; Ottman, 1956; Rodeheaver, 1972; Schleuter, 1983), academic
ability (Chadwick, 1933; Harrison, 1990, 1991; Harrison, Asmus, \&
Serpe, 1994; Rodeheaver,1972), and musical experience (Brown, 2001;
Dean, 1937; Furby, 2008; Harrison, 1990, 1991; Harrison et al., 1994;
Thostenson, 1967).

Taken as a whole, the research tends to suggesting that learning to be a
fluid and compotent sight reader helps musicians hone their skills by
bootstrapping other musical skills since the skills needed for
sightreading touch on many of the skills used in musical performance
like pattern matching and listening for small changes in intonnation.
Each of these individual factors contributes in a small and significant
way and additionally will interact with the other half of the taxonomy:
musical parameters.

\hypertarget{musical-parameters}{%
\section{Musical Parameters}\label{musical-parameters}}

Transitioning to the other half of the taxonomy on figure X, the other
main source of variation on any study looking at melodic perception, and
consequently studies of melodic dictation, is the effect of the melody
itself. I find it safe to assume that not all melodies are equally
difficult to dictate and assert that variance in the difficulty the
melody can partitioned between both \textbf{structural} and
\textbf{experimental} aspects of a melody. As noted above, there is not
a strict deliniation between these two categories since once could
imagine drastic maniuplations in experimental parameters in order to
result in a phenomenologically different experience of melody. Questions
of transformations of melodies and musical similarity fall have been
addressed in ohter research
\citep{cambouropoulosHowSimilarSimilar2009, wigginsModelsMusicalSimilarity2007}
but are beyond the scope of this study.

\hypertarget{structural}{%
\subsection{Structural}\label{structural}}

The notion that the music as represented by a score is able to provide
insights towards understanding aspects about music is not new to music
theory and anlaysis. Heinrich Schenker argued for an undertanding of
tonal music \citep{schenkerFreieSatz1935} that asserted hierarchical
relationships of notes on the musical surface in the early 20th century
and has since been expanded upon by theorists over the past century
SALTZER, SCHAKTER, ROTHSTEIN. Leonard Meyer in his \emph{Emotion and
Meaning in Music} \citep{meyerEmotionMeaningMusic1956} continued some of
these lines of thought and was the first who put forward the idea that
tethered the struture that earlier theorists wrote about and suggested
that in addition to this struture being fundamental to the perception of
the piece that there were also responsible for some aspects of the
emotion and meaning listeners found in the piece.

Meyer's work since inspired a line of reserach investigating the
perception of the structural aspects of music could be understood with
the work of Eugene Narmor
\citep{narmourAnalysisCognitionBasic1990, narmourAnalysisCognitionMelodic1992},
Glenn Schellenberg
\citep{schellenbergSimplifyingImplicationRealizationModel1997},
Elizabeth Hellmuth Margulis \citep{margulisModelMelodicExpectation2005},
David Huron \citep{huronSweetAnticipation2006} and have inpsired
computational, machine learning approaches to expectational frameworks
in with work by Marcus Pearce
\citep{pearceAuditoryExpectationInformation2012}.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  WHAT IS THE POINT OF ALL THIS RESERACH SETNECE
\end{itemize}

These general models of melodic perception tend suggest that Meyer was
correct in his assertion that computational methodologies could be used
to better understand question of melodic perception and strucuture and
that there are links between the structure of the music and its
perception.\footnote{This whole section sucks}

Turning to studies examining melodic dictation with a focus on musical
structure, the first study to examine it extensively was Ortmann in 1933
\citep{ortmannTonalDeterminantsMelodic1933}. Ortamnn used a series of
twenty five-note melodies in order to examine the effects of repetition,
pitch direction, conjunct-disjunct motion (contour), interval size,
order, and chord structure, all of which he deems to be the
\emph{determinants} of an individual's ability to dictate melodic
material. Though Ortmann did not use any statistical methods to model
his data, he did assert that each of his determinants contributed to an
individual's ability to dictate musical material. This work was extended
by \citep{taylorStrategiesMemoryShort1983} which additionally
incoporated using musical skill as a predictor and additionally found
evidence that these factors contributed to individual dictation
abilities in a sample of 122 undergraduate students.

Although the literature is generally sparce compared to other areas of
music cognition, literature exploring the effects of structural
characteristics on memory does exist. Long found that length, tonal
structure, contour, and individual traits all contribute to performance
on melodic dictation examinations and found that structure and tonalness
to have significant, albeit small predictive powers in modeling
\citep{longRelationshipsPitchMemory1977}. One problem with studies such
as \citep{longRelationshipsPitchMemory1977} is that they sometimes would
make conspicuous methodloogical decisions such as elimnating individuals
who were bad singers for the example. Not only does this reduce the
spectrum of ability levels (assuming that singing ability correlates
with dictation ability, a finding since which has been established
\citep{norrisRelationshipSightSinging2003}), but is additinally flawed
in that it is at odds both with the intuition that an individual's
singing ability cannot be taken as a direct representation of their
mental image of the melody and is probably more related to the ability
to have motor control over the vocal tract
\citep{pfordresherPoorPitchSingingAbsence2007}.

Other researchers have also put forward other paramters thought to
contribute like tempo
\citep{hofstetterComputerBaesedRecognitionPerceptual1981} tonality
\citep{dowlingScaleContourTwo1978}
\citep{longRelationshipsPitchMemory1977}
\citep{pembrookInterferenceTranscriptionProcess1986}
\citep{ouraMemoryMelodiesSubjects1988} interval motion
\citep{ortmannTonalDeterminantsMelodic1933, pembrookInterferenceTranscriptionProcess1986}
length of melody
\citep{longRelationshipsPitchMemory1977, pembrookInterferenceTranscriptionProcess1986}
number of presentations
\citep{hofstetterComputerBaesedRecognitionPerceptual1981}
{[}\citep{pembrookInterferenceTranscriptionProcess1986}{]} context of
presentation \citep{schellenbergEffectTonalRhythmicContext1985} listener
experience
\citep{longRelationshipsPitchMemory1977, ouraMemoryMelodiesSubjects1988}
\citep{schellenbergEffectTonalRhythmicContext1985, taylorStrategiesMemoryShort1983}
familarity of style \citep{schellenbergEffectTonalRhythmicContext1985}

\citet{pembrookInterferenceTranscriptionProcess1986} provides an
extensive detailing of a systematic study to melodic dictation where
they used tonality, melody length, and type of motion as variables in
their experiment. They additionally also restricted their experimental
melodies to those that were singable. The authors found all three
variables to be significant predictors with tonality explaining 13\% of
the variance, length explaining 3\% of the variance and type of motion
explaining 1\% of the variance. The paper also claims that people on
average can hear and remember 10-16 notes, which is worth commenting
that these 10--16 notes are dependent on the experimental context of the
melodies played with the quarter note set to 90 beats per minute.

Given the lack of consistent methodlogies in adminstration and scoring
of these experiments it becomes difficult to find ways to generalize
basic findings like expected effect sizes-- especially when the original
materials and data have not been recorded-- but there is often
interesting theoretical insights to be gleaned. For example
\citep{ouraConstructingRepresentationMelody1991a} used a sample of eight
people to suggest that when taking melodic dictation, individuals use a
system of pattern matching that interfaces with their long term memory
in order to complete dictation tasks. While this paper does not bring
with it exhaustive evidence supporting this claim, the idea is explored
in detail in Chapter 6 the idea of pattern matching is used in
conjunction with Cowan's embeded process model of working memory.

More recently the music education community has also began to do
research around melodic dictation using both qualitative and
quantitiatve methdologies. \citep{paneyTeachingMelodicDictation2014}
interviewed high school teachers on methods they used to teach melodic
dictation and \citep{gillespieMelodicDictationScoring2001} has done work
on investigating methods as to best score melodic dictation. Other work
by \citep{pembrookSendHelpAural1990} surveyed various methodlogies used
by instructurs in aural skills settings. Some of these studies consider
aural skills as a totality like
\citep{norrisRelationshipSightSinging2003} who provided quantiative
evidence to suggest most aural skills pedagoge's intuition that there is
some sort of relationship between melodic dictation and sight singing.
Looking at the notorious subset of students with absolute pitch (AP),
\citep{dooleyAbsolutePitchCorrelates2010} provided evidence demonstrated
that students with AP tend to outperform their non-AP colleagues in
tests of dication.

{[}SOME OF THESE ARE CLEARLY EXPERIMENTAL AND NEED TO BE PUT THERE{]}

Continuing exploring the pedagogical liteature, Naton Buonviri and
colleagues have also made melodic dictation a central focus of some
recent papers. \citet{paneyTeachingMelodicDictation2014} interviewed
high school teachers on methods that they used to teach melodic
dictation. \citet{buonviriEffectsMusicNotation2015} interviewed six
sophomore music majors to find sucessful strategies that students enaged
with when completing melodic dications.
\citet{paneyEffectDirectingAttention2016} reported beneficial effects to
direct student's attention and guide them through melodic dictation
exercises suggesting that some sort of mental organizaton of the
dication process is helpful.
\citet{buonviriMelodicDictationInstruction2015} found that having
students sing a preparatory singing pattern after hearing the target
melody, essentially a distractor task, hindered performance on melodic
dictation. \citet{buonviriEffectsPreparatorySinging2015}\ldots{}
\citet{buonviriEffectsMusicNotation2015} found no effects of test
presentation format (visual versus aural-visual) using a melodic memory
paradigm. \citet{buonviriEffectsTwoListening2017} reported no
significant advatage to listening strategies while partaking in a
melodic dictation test.

\hypertarget{recent-computational-musicology-work-papers-and-findings}{%
\subsubsection{Recent Computational Musicology Work papers and
findings}\label{recent-computational-musicology-work-papers-and-findings}}

Using symbolic features of the melodies themselves is not a novel
approach as noted in the above literature attempting to predict
performance on melodic dictations. Much of this work pre-dates recent
advances in computational musicology such as the advent of technology
like David Huron's Humdrum \citep{huronHumdrumToolkitReference1994} and
Michael Cutberth's Music21
\citep{cuthbertMusic21ToolkitComputerAided2010} which now allows music
researchers to systematically digitize symbolic musical material. In
addition to creating accesible frameworks for encoding, the
computational power availble exponentially exceeds that of what was
availble in the 20th century and has opened up new possibilities in the
computational modeling of music.

While I reserve a longer discussion on the histories of computational
musicology for the fourth chapter, relevant to this study is the
additional ways it is now possible to abstract features from symbolic
melodies beyond what was capable in studies such as
\citet{ortmannTonalDeterminantsMelodic1933} and
\citet{taylorStrategiesMemoryShort1983}.

An abstracted feature of a melody is an emergent property of the melody
that results from performing some sort of calculation on the melody?
This type of feature abstraction is in contrast to much of the work done
in the field of music information retrivial which often relies on the
recorded audio for feature abstraction and is addressed under
Experimental features LINK THAT IN!. Abstracted symbolic features of
melodies can largely be conceptualized as being \textbf{static} or
\textbf{dynamic}. The above papers tended to use more simplisitc methods
of figuring out parameters such as counting the notes by hand but with
the advent of new encoding systems and more powerful computing power it
is now possible to take on much more rigerious computational analyses.

\hypertarget{static-views-of-computational-features-fantastic}{%
\subsubsection{Static Views of Computational Features/
FANTASTIC}\label{static-views-of-computational-features-fantastic}}

Static features of melodies work by summerizing some aspect of the
melody as if it were to be experience in suspended animation. Using
static features helps quantify something that might be intuitive about a
melody or piece of encoded music. For example, something like David
Huron's contour class used in a study investigating melodic arches
\citep{huronMelodicArchWestern1996} using the Essen Folk Song Collection
\citep{schaffrathEssenFolkSong1995} can only be understood as a feature
of the melody itself once the melody has been sounded and is recalled
would be a static feature of a melody. Other examples include a melody's
global note density, normalized pairwise variability index (CITATION),
and a melody's tonalness as calculated by one of the various key profile
algorithms (KRUMHANSL,ALBRECT AND SHANAHAN) These measures are useful
when describing melodies and are predictive of various behavioral
phenomena as detailed below, but at this point it has not been well
established to what degree these summary features can be directly
related to aspects of human behavior.

The quintessential and most comprehensive toolbox example of this is
Daniel Müllensiefen's Feature ANalysis Technology Accesing STatistics
(In a Corpus) or FANTASTIC
\citep{mullensiefenFantasticFeatureANalysis2009}. FANTASTIC is software
that is capable summerizing musical material at for monophonic melodies.
In additon to computing 37 features such as contour variation,
tonalnesss, note density, note length, and measures inspired by
computational linguistics (THAT BOOK OF GERAINT), FANTASTIC also
calculates m-types (melodic-rhyhmic motives) that are based on the
frequency distributions of melodic segements found genres of music. This
is inspired by fact that repeition is key structure of music
\citep{huronSweetAnticipation2006}

Work using the FANTASTIC toolboox has been sucessful in predicting court
case decisions \citep{mullensiefenCourtDecisionsMusic2009}, predicting
chart sucesses of songs on the Beatles' \emph{Revolver}
\citep{kopiezAufSucheNach2011}, memory for old and new melodies in
signal detection experiments
\citep{mullensiefenRoleFeaturesContext2014}, memory for earworms
\citep{jakubowskiDissectingEarwormMelodic2017, williamsonEarwormsThreeAngles2012},
memorability of pop music hook \citep{balenCorpusAnalyisTools2015}. In
experimental studies, FANTASTIC has also been used to determine item
difficulty
\citep{bakerPerceptionLeitmotivesRichard2017, harrisonModellingMelodicDiscrimination2016}
and has even been the basis of the development of a computer assistted
platform for studying memory for melodies
\citep{rainsfordMUSOSMUsicSOftware2018}.

\hypertarget{dynamic}{%
\subsubsection{Dynamic}\label{dynamic}}

In addition to using summary based features on melodies, it is also
possible to model the perception of musical materials by using a dynamic
approach that is dependent on the unfolding of musical material. First
explored in CONKLIN, and then first published as a dynamic model of
expectation in his doctoral dissertation, Marcus Pearce's Informaton
Dynamics Of Melody IDyOM models musical expectancy using various
information theoretic concepts inspired by Claude Shannon (SHANNON). The
model takes an unsupervised machine learning approach and calculates the
information content of the amount of DECLARED n-grams in the corpus. As
a model exploring expection for melody IDyOM has has been applied to a
variety of settings LIST THEM HERE. The domain general application of
IDyOM has given creedence to Meyer's assertion that the enculturation of
musical styles stems from statistical exposure to melodies and be
somewhat refelective of the cogitive processes used in muscical
perception. IDyOM has also been recently extended to look at expectation
in multi-part chorales (SAUVE WORK) and expectations of harmony
(HARRISON WORK).

\citep{pearceAuditoryExpectationInformation2012a, pearceStatisticalLearningProbabilistic2018}

The advantage of using a dynamic approach is that it theoretically
reflects real time perception of music with the structural
characeristics of the music mapping on to real human behavior.

\hypertarget{experimental}{%
\subsection{Experimental}\label{experimental}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Advantage of vocal melodies paper
\item
  MIR stuff
\item
  Stuff out of education stuff that is also experimental
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{modeling-and-polymorphism-of-ability}{%
\section{Modeling and Polymorphism of
Ability}\label{modeling-and-polymorphism-of-ability}}

Given the current state of cognitive psychology and psychometrics, as
well as recent advances in computational musicology, the possibilities
for now operationalizing and then modeling aspects of melodic dictation
are as advanced as they ever have been. Given that we can now assign
numbers to basically every factor that is thought to contribute to this
process from concepts of musicianship, to features of a melody, to the
variable size in an individual's working memory capacity all of these
thigns can be put into some sort of model. While this will bring the
community closer to formally modeling all of this and lead to a clearer
understanding, before going ahead and doing this it is worth pointing
out that many of the concepts discussed above are highly complex
concepts like musicianship and tonalness and rest on lots of
assumptions. Musicianship, for example, or any measure of musical
training is not something that can be measured directly such as a
person's height or weight, but has to be inferred based on the logical
assumptions of the person doing the measurments. So while the rest of
this study will rely on this, it is important to note that people
shouldn't confuse abstracted concepts with real things.

The most illustrative example of this comes from a study by HARRISON ET
AL who created a latent variable model of aural skills that was able to
predict 74\% of the variance in aural skills performance. This latent
trait that the authors created may be helpful in explaining the patterns
of covariance in data, but this would be to reifiy a statistical
abstraction as an ontologically true idea. This idea has been discussed
before critqiuing ideas such as \emph{g}
\citep{gouldMismeasureMan1996, kovacsProcessOverlapTheory2016} and has
recently been the subject of critique in music psychology OUR GOLDMSI
PAPER.

The same arguments put forward in this literature also are relevant
here. In order to have a complete, causal model of \emph{how} melodic
dictation works, it is important to understand melodic dictation as a
set of musical abilities that are related to other musical abilities,
though may not be related. This idea is not new even in music
psychology, the past two decades have seen calls for a more polymorphic
definition of musical ability
\citep{levitinWhatDoesIt2012, peretzModularityMusicProcessing2003} which
in its modeling will require more concrete ways of defining how it works
than just correlating variable together that are helpful at prediction
without saying exactly how that process happens.

\hypertarget{conclusions}{%
\section{Conclusions}\label{conclusions}}

In this chapter I first described what is melodic dictation using
Karpinki's verbal model, noted what the things were that were missing
from this model as a stepping off point, then went on to suggest a
taxonomy of these based on what already has done. I suggest there are
both individual as well as musical features that need to be understood
in order to have a comprensive understanding of melodic dictation. Of
the two sets of features, individual features can be either cognitive or
environmental and musical features can be either structural or
experimental. This taxonomy does not consist of exclusive categories and
certainly permits interactions between any and all of the levels.

It would be impossible given the scope of this study to effectively
quantify each and every factor and how it interacts at every level, but
the degree to which there is the most literature and you can get the
most bang for you buck seems like the obvious stepping off point. Rest
of this dissertation will systehsize these areas and put forth novel
research contributing to the modeling and subsequent understanding of
melodic dictation. Understanding melodic dictation will help with both
understanding melodic perception and help our pedagogy.

\hypertarget{add-in}{%
\subsection{Add In}\label{add-in}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \citep{hansenWorkingMemoryMusical2013}
\item
  Dowling 1991 \citep{dowlingTonalStrengthMelody1991}
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{history-of-aural-skills}{%
\chapter{History of Aural Skills}\label{history-of-aural-skills}}

\hypertarget{thesis-show-that-aural-skills-always-has-practical-end-efficacy-of-representation-of-musical-pitch}{%
\section{Thesis: Show that aural skills always has practical end,
efficacy of representation of musical
pitch}\label{thesis-show-that-aural-skills-always-has-practical-end-efficacy-of-representation-of-musical-pitch}}

\hypertarget{for-i-in-star-aural-people-do}{%
\subsection{for i in star aural people
do}\label{for-i-in-star-aural-people-do}}

\hypertarget{who}{%
\subsection{Who}\label{who}}

\hypertarget{where}{%
\subsection{Where}\label{where}}

\hypertarget{when}{%
\subsection{When}\label{when}}

\hypertarget{what}{%
\subsection{What}\label{what}}

\hypertarget{how-approach-and-goals}{%
\subsection{How (approach and goals)}\label{how-approach-and-goals}}

\hypertarget{why}{%
\subsection{Why}\label{why}}

\hypertarget{guido-darezzo}{%
\subsection{Guido d'Arezzo}\label{guido-darezzo}}

\hypertarget{walerant-via-calvisius}{%
\subsection{Walerant (via Calvisius)}\label{walerant-via-calvisius}}

\hypertarget{banchieri}{%
\subsection{Banchieri}\label{banchieri}}

\hypertarget{cerratto}{%
\subsection{Cerratto}\label{cerratto}}

\hypertarget{penna}{%
\subsection{Penna}\label{penna}}

\hypertarget{zarlino}{%
\subsection{Zarlino}\label{zarlino}}

\hypertarget{quotes-from-schumann}{%
\section{Quotes from Schumann}\label{quotes-from-schumann}}

\hypertarget{carl-seashore-thinking-in-music}{%
\section{Carl Seashore thinking in
music}\label{carl-seashore-thinking-in-music}}

\hypertarget{points-from-karpinski-on-pedagogy}{%
\section{Points from Karpinski on
pedagogy}\label{points-from-karpinski-on-pedagogy}}

\hypertarget{points-from-royal-paper-on-pedagogy}{%
\section{Points from Royal Paper on
pedagogy}\label{points-from-royal-paper-on-pedagogy}}

\hypertarget{solmization-system}{%
\section{Solmization System}\label{solmization-system}}

\hypertarget{really-this-is-all-question-of-efficacy-of-mental-representation-of-musical-pitch}{%
\section{Really this is all question of efficacy of mental
representation of musical
pitch}\label{really-this-is-all-question-of-efficacy-of-mental-representation-of-musical-pitch}}

\hypertarget{individual-differences}{%
\chapter{Individual Differences}\label{individual-differences}}

\hypertarget{why-care-about-cognitive-abilities}{%
\section{Why care about cognitive
abilities}\label{why-care-about-cognitive-abilities}}

\hypertarget{general-intelligence-and-wmc}{%
\subsection{General intelligence and
WMC}\label{general-intelligence-and-wmc}}

\hypertarget{defining-of-terms}{%
\subsection{Defining of terms}\label{defining-of-terms}}

\hypertarget{have-established-that-cognitive-abilities-contribute-to-musical-task-for-journal-article-langauge-repeat}{%
\section{Have established that cognitive abilities contribute to musical
task (for journal article langauge
repeat)}\label{have-established-that-cognitive-abilities-contribute-to-musical-task-for-journal-article-langauge-repeat}}

\hypertarget{general-fluid-intelligence-wmc-training-as-uni-of-polymorphic}{%
\subsection{General Fluid Intelligence, WMC, Training as uni of
polymorphic}\label{general-fluid-intelligence-wmc-training-as-uni-of-polymorphic}}

\hypertarget{remind-the-nature-of-a-musical-dictation-type-task-hear-loop-executive-decision}{%
\section{Remind the nature of a musical dictation type task (hear, loop,
executive
decision)}\label{remind-the-nature-of-a-musical-dictation-type-task-hear-loop-executive-decision}}

\hypertarget{this-is-wmc-task-gf-has-problems-although-high-level-link-with-gf-problematic-wmc-models-at-level-of-process-of-md}{%
\subsection{This is WMC task, gf has problems (Although high level link
with gf, problematic, WMC models at level of process of
md)}\label{this-is-wmc-task-gf-has-problems-although-high-level-link-with-gf-problematic-wmc-models-at-level-of-process-of-md}}

\hypertarget{berz-1994-noticed-it-first}{%
\subsubsection{Berz 1994 noticed it
first}\label{berz-1994-noticed-it-first}}

\hypertarget{williamson-baddely-hitch-suggest-maybe-musical-loop}{%
\subsubsection{Williamson Baddely Hitch suggest maybe musical
loop}\label{williamson-baddely-hitch-suggest-maybe-musical-loop}}

\hypertarget{even-cowan-labs-wonder-how-different-li-cowan-saults}{%
\subsubsection{Even Cowan labs wonder how different (Li Cowan Saults
)}\label{even-cowan-labs-wonder-how-different-li-cowan-saults}}

\hypertarget{wmc-has-been-misused-in-music-education-theory-pedagogy-aural-literature-and-deserves-attention}{%
\section{WMC has been misused in music education, theory, pedagogy,
aural literature and deserves
attention}\label{wmc-has-been-misused-in-music-education-theory-pedagogy-aural-literature-and-deserves-attention}}

\hypertarget{problems-with-chunking}{%
\subsection{Problems with chunking}\label{problems-with-chunking}}

\hypertarget{mistake-with-miller-1956-he-did-not-mean-7-items}{%
\subsubsection{Mistake with Miller 1956, he did not mean 7
items}\label{mistake-with-miller-1956-he-did-not-mean-7-items}}

\hypertarget{broadbent-1956-more-of-why-its-more-like-3-4}{%
\subsubsection{Broadbent 1956 more of why its more like
3-4}\label{broadbent-1956-more-of-why-its-more-like-3-4}}

\hypertarget{problems-with-using-capacity-limit-literature}{%
\subsection{Problems with using capacity limit
literature}\label{problems-with-using-capacity-limit-literature}}

\hypertarget{see-cowan-2005-page-80}{%
\subsubsection{See Cowan 2005 page 80}\label{see-cowan-2005-page-80}}

\hypertarget{musical-order-is-always-serial-effects}{%
\subsubsection{Musical order is always serial
effects}\label{musical-order-is-always-serial-effects}}

\hypertarget{should-be-using-cowan-model-because-of-these-things-zooming-or-discuss-within-baddely-hitchatkinson-shriff}{%
\subsection{Should be using Cowan model because of these things
(zooming) or discuss within Baddely Hitch/Atkinson
Shriff}\label{should-be-using-cowan-model-because-of-these-things-zooming-or-discuss-within-baddely-hitchatkinson-shriff}}

\hypertarget{one-note-does-not-mean-one-unit-in-memory}{%
\subsection{One Note does not mean one unit in
memory!}\label{one-note-does-not-mean-one-unit-in-memory}}

\hypertarget{confounded-by-corpus-distributions}{%
\subsection{Confounded by corpus
distributions}\label{confounded-by-corpus-distributions}}

\hypertarget{lack-of-understanding-all-aural-skills-are-those-that-engage-wmc-lvh-says-many-students-have-wmc-deficits-increase-memory}{%
\subsection{Lack of understanding (all aural skills are those that
engage WMC, LVH says many students have WMC deficits, ``increase
memory'')}\label{lack-of-understanding-all-aural-skills-are-those-that-engage-wmc-lvh-says-many-students-have-wmc-deficits-increase-memory}}

\hypertarget{point-i-am-making-is-that-if-youre-going-to-do-it-do-it-well.}{%
\subsection{Point I am making is that if you're going to do it, do it
well.}\label{point-i-am-making-is-that-if-youre-going-to-do-it-do-it-well.}}

\hypertarget{know-wmc-plays-a-role-sense-pertain-execute-should-be-able-to-pick-up-in-experiment-close-to-md}{%
\section{Know WMC plays a role, sense, pertain, execute, should be able
to pick up in experiment close to
MD}\label{know-wmc-plays-a-role-sense-pertain-execute-should-be-able-to-pick-up-in-experiment-close-to-md}}

\hypertarget{gold-msi-melodic-memory-and-beat-perception-test}{%
\section{Gold-MSI melodic Memory and beat perception
test}\label{gold-msi-melodic-memory-and-beat-perception-test}}

\hypertarget{what-is-gold-msi}{%
\subsection{What is gold MSI}\label{what-is-gold-msi}}

\hypertarget{what-are-issues-i-want-to-talk-about-with-psychometrics}{%
\subsection{What are issues I want to talk about with
psychometrics}\label{what-are-issues-i-want-to-talk-about-with-psychometrics}}

\hypertarget{describe-test-in-detail-and-why-its-what-were-after-here}{%
\subsection{Describe test in detail and WHY it's what we're after
here}\label{describe-test-in-detail-and-why-its-what-were-after-here}}

\hypertarget{not-exactly-mmd-but-most-people-would-say-similar-skill-sets}{%
\subsubsection{not exactly mmd, but most people would say similar skill
sets}\label{not-exactly-mmd-but-most-people-would-say-similar-skill-sets}}

\hypertarget{also-before-getting-dirtyneed-experimental-desing-with-less-response-options-cowan-saults-elliott-moreano-2002}{%
\subsubsection{also before getting dirty,need experimental desing with
less response options (Cowan, Saults, Elliott, Moreano
2002)}\label{also-before-getting-dirtyneed-experimental-desing-with-less-response-options-cowan-saults-elliott-moreano-2002}}

\hypertarget{if-we-accept-these-dvs-then-we-should-be-able-to-predict-them-with-self-reports-and-measures-of-wmc-and-gf}{%
\section{IF we accept these DVs, THEN we should be able to predict them
with self reports and measures of WMC and
gf}\label{if-we-accept-these-dvs-then-we-should-be-able-to-predict-them-with-self-reports-and-measures-of-wmc-and-gf}}

\hypertarget{do-this-with-hierarchical-lvm-ala-elliott-paper}{%
\section{Do this with hierarchical LVM ala Elliott
paper}\label{do-this-with-hierarchical-lvm-ala-elliott-paper}}

\hypertarget{versions-of-this-paper-at-icmpc}{%
\subsection{Versions of this paper at
ICMPC}\label{versions-of-this-paper-at-icmpc}}

\hypertarget{exploratory-in-that-tried-a-few-different-models-high-type-i-error-but-whatever}{%
\subsection{Exploratory in that tried a few different models (high type
I error but
whatever)}\label{exploratory-in-that-tried-a-few-different-models-high-type-i-error-but-whatever}}

\hypertarget{overview-of-experiment-cross-sectional-design}{%
\section{Overview of Experiment (cross sectional
design)}\label{overview-of-experiment-cross-sectional-design}}

\hypertarget{participants}{%
\subsection{Participants}\label{participants}}

\hypertarget{materials}{%
\subsection{Materials}\label{materials}}

\hypertarget{procedure}{%
\subsection{Procedure}\label{procedure}}

\hypertarget{results}{%
\subsection{Results}\label{results}}

\hypertarget{descriptive-correlational}{%
\subsubsection{Descriptive,
Correlational}\label{descriptive-correlational}}

\hypertarget{modeling}{%
\subsubsection{Modeling}\label{modeling}}

\hypertarget{discussion}{%
\subsection{Discussion}\label{discussion}}

\hypertarget{review-of-the-goals}{%
\subsubsection{Review of the Goals}\label{review-of-the-goals}}

\hypertarget{what-were-best-model-fits}{%
\subsubsection{What were best model
fits}\label{what-were-best-model-fits}}

\hypertarget{clear-effect-of-wmc}{%
\subsubsection{Clear effect of WMC}\label{clear-effect-of-wmc}}

\hypertarget{what-if-we-are-just-measuring-wmc}{%
\subsubsection{What if we are just measuring
WMC?}\label{what-if-we-are-just-measuring-wmc}}

\hypertarget{obvs-need-this-for-futre-studies}{%
\subsubsection{Obvs need this for futre
studies}\label{obvs-need-this-for-futre-studies}}

\hypertarget{need-to-use-something-to-go-above-and-beyond-baseline-transition-to-corpus-as-memory-and-n-gram}{%
\subsubsection{Need to use something to go above and beyond baseline
(--transition to corpus as memory and
n-gram)}\label{need-to-use-something-to-go-above-and-beyond-baseline-transition-to-corpus-as-memory-and-n-gram}}

\hypertarget{future-verbal-theoretical-and-computational-models-should-involve-capacity-measures-limits}{%
\subsubsection{Future verbal theoretical and computational models should
involve capacity measures
(limits)}\label{future-verbal-theoretical-and-computational-models-should-involve-capacity-measures-limits}}

\hypertarget{computation-chapter}{%
\chapter{Computation Chapter}\label{computation-chapter}}

OTHER PEOPLE WHO HAVE DONE THIS

Folk music

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Bartok 1936?
\item
  Bartok and Lord 1951
\item
  Lomax 1977
\item
  Steinbeck 1982
\item
  Jesser 1992
\item
  Sagrillo 1999
\item
  GET AND READ PAT SAVAGE ARTICLE
\end{itemize}

Popular Music

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Moor 2006
\item
  Kramarz 2006
\item
  Furnes 2006
\item
  Riedemann ????
\end{itemize}

Computational Musicology

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Eerola eta al 2007 and 2007
\item
  McCay 2005
\item
  Huron 2006
\item
  Frieler 2008
\item
  JAZZOMAT PROJECRT OUTPUT
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{humans-like-patterns-and-are-very-good-at-picking-them-up}{%
\section{Humans like patterns and are very good at picking them
up}\label{humans-like-patterns-and-are-very-good-at-picking-them-up}}

\hypertarget{we-learn-things-implicitly}{%
\subsection{We learn things
implicitly}\label{we-learn-things-implicitly}}

\hypertarget{we-can-represent-that-implicit-knowledge-with-a-corpus}{%
\subsection{We can represent that implicit knowledge with a
corpus}\label{we-can-represent-that-implicit-knowledge-with-a-corpus}}

\hypertarget{pre-musical-corpora}{%
\section{Pre-Musical Corpora}\label{pre-musical-corpora}}

\hypertarget{information-theory}{%
\subsection{Information Theory}\label{information-theory}}

\hypertarget{computational-linguistics-as-front-runner}{%
\subsection{Computational Linguistics as front
runner}\label{computational-linguistics-as-front-runner}}

\hypertarget{musical-corpora}{%
\section{Musical Corpora}\label{musical-corpora}}

\hypertarget{history-of-musical-corpora}{%
\subsection{History of Musical
Corpora}\label{history-of-musical-corpora}}

\hypertarget{fun-old-computational-music-papers}{%
\subsubsection{Fun old computational music
papers}\label{fun-old-computational-music-papers}}

\hypertarget{corpora-that-are-often-used}{%
\subsubsection{Corpora that are often
used}\label{corpora-that-are-often-used}}

\hypertarget{static-vs-dynamic-models-of-feature-abstraction-daniel-slides}{%
\subsubsection{Static vs Dynamic models of feature abstraction (daniel
slides?)}\label{static-vs-dynamic-models-of-feature-abstraction-daniel-slides}}

\hypertarget{fantastic}{%
\subsection{FANTASTIC}\label{fantastic}}

\hypertarget{static}{%
\subsubsection{static}\label{static}}

\hypertarget{ml-approach-gets-it-right}{%
\subsubsection{ML approach gets it
right}\label{ml-approach-gets-it-right}}

\hypertarget{simple-to-understand}{%
\subsubsection{simple to understand}\label{simple-to-understand}}

\hypertarget{can-abstract-features-be-percieved}{%
\subsubsection{Can abstract features be
percieved?}\label{can-abstract-features-be-percieved}}

\hypertarget{note-density}{%
\subparagraph{Note density}\label{note-density}}

\hypertarget{contour-variation}{%
\subparagraph{Contour variation}\label{contour-variation}}

\hypertarget{tonalness}{%
\subparagraph{Tonalness}\label{tonalness}}

\hypertarget{weird-computational-measures}{%
\subparagraph{weird computational
measures}\label{weird-computational-measures}}

\hypertarget{idyom-as-representation-of-musical-materials}{%
\subsection{IDyOM as representation of musical
materials}\label{idyom-as-representation-of-musical-materials}}

\hypertarget{n-gram-models}{%
\subsubsection{n-gram models}\label{n-gram-models}}

\hypertarget{mirrors-human-behavior}{%
\subsubsection{mirrors human behavior}\label{mirrors-human-behavior}}

\hypertarget{melody}{%
\subparagraph{melody}\label{melody}}

\hypertarget{harmony}{%
\subparagraph{harmony}\label{harmony}}

\hypertarget{so-what}{%
\section{So What?}\label{so-what}}

\hypertarget{other-research-chapt-3-suggest-need-to-move-beyond-cognitive-measures}{%
\subsubsection{Other research (Chapt 3) suggest need to move beyond
cognitive
measures}\label{other-research-chapt-3-suggest-need-to-move-beyond-cognitive-measures}}

\hypertarget{can-operationalize-item-level-items-contextually-with-a-corpus}{%
\subsubsection{Can operationalize item level items contextually with a
corpus}\label{can-operationalize-item-level-items-contextually-with-a-corpus}}

\hypertarget{if-features-are-real-they-should-effect-dictation-chater-6}{%
\subsubsection{IF features are real, they should effect dictation
(Chater
6)}\label{if-features-are-real-they-should-effect-dictation-chater-6}}

\hypertarget{not-only-important-for-one-off-but-then-would-be-incorporated-into-computational-learning-models-chapter-6}{%
\subsubsection{Not only important for one off, but then would be
incorporated into computational learning models (Chapter
6)}\label{not-only-important-for-one-off-but-then-would-be-incorporated-into-computational-learning-models-chapter-6}}

\hypertarget{we-need-new-materials}{%
\subsubsection{We need new materials}\label{we-need-new-materials}}

\hypertarget{hello-corpus}{%
\chapter{Hello, Corpus}\label{hello-corpus}}

\hypertarget{brief-review-of-chapter-4-on-corpus-language-to-reflect-journal-submission}{%
\section{Brief review of Chapter 4 on corpus (Language to reflect
journal
submission)}\label{brief-review-of-chapter-4-on-corpus-language-to-reflect-journal-submission}}

\hypertarget{corpus-outside-of-music}{%
\subsection{Corpus outside of music}\label{corpus-outside-of-music}}

\hypertarget{corpus-in-music}{%
\subsection{Corpus in Music}\label{corpus-in-music}}

\hypertarget{the-point-is-that-it-implicitly-represents-humand-knowledge}{%
\subsection{The point is that it implicitly represents humand
knowledge}\label{the-point-is-that-it-implicitly-represents-humand-knowledge}}

\hypertarget{idyom-1}{%
\subsection{IDyOM 1}\label{idyom-1}}

\hypertarget{idyom-2}{%
\subsection{IDyOM 2}\label{idyom-2}}

\hypertarget{idyom-3}{%
\subsection{IDyOM 3}\label{idyom-3}}

\hypertarget{huron-suggestions-that-starts-of-melodies-relate-to-mental-rotaiton}{%
\subsection{Huron suggestions that starts of melodies relate to mental
rotaiton}\label{huron-suggestions-that-starts-of-melodies-relate-to-mental-rotaiton}}

\hypertarget{other-huron-claims}{%
\subsection{Other Huron claims}\label{other-huron-claims}}

\hypertarget{note-problem-with-using-corpus-is-making-corpus}{%
\section{Note problem with using corpus is making
corpus}\label{note-problem-with-using-corpus-is-making-corpus}}

\hypertarget{many-are-used-on-essen}{%
\subsection{Many are used on Essen}\label{many-are-used-on-essen}}

\hypertarget{brinkman-says-essen-sucks}{%
\subsection{Brinkman says Essen Sucks}\label{brinkman-says-essen-sucks}}

\hypertarget{if-going-to-make-generlizable-claims-need-to-always-have-new-data}{%
\subsection{If going to make generlizable claims, need to always have
new
data}\label{if-going-to-make-generlizable-claims-need-to-always-have-new-data}}

\hypertarget{solem-duty-to-encode-and-report-on-corpus}{%
\section{Solem duty to encode and report on
corpus}\label{solem-duty-to-encode-and-report-on-corpus}}

\hypertarget{justin-london-article-on-what-makes-it-into-a-corpsu}{%
\subsection{Justin London Article on what makes it into a
corpsu}\label{justin-london-article-on-what-makes-it-into-a-corpsu}}

\hypertarget{though-i-just-encoded-the-whole-thing-because-in-my-heart-of-hearts-im-a-bayesian}{%
\subsection{Though I just encoded the whole thing because in my heart of
hearts I'm a
Bayesian}\label{though-i-just-encoded-the-whole-thing-because-in-my-heart-of-hearts-im-a-bayesian}}

\hypertarget{the-corpus}{%
\section{The Corpus}\label{the-corpus}}

\hypertarget{history-of-sight-singign-books}{%
\subsection{History of Sight Singign
books}\label{history-of-sight-singign-books}}

\hypertarget{assumed-to-be-where-long-term-store-comes-from-adumbrate-computational-model}{%
\subsection{Assumed to be where long term store comes from (adumbrate
computational
model)}\label{assumed-to-be-where-long-term-store-comes-from-adumbrate-computational-model}}

\hypertarget{lots-of-melodies-in-ascending-order-of-difficulty-grouped-appropriately-though-utah-guy}{%
\subsection{Lots of melodies in ascending order of difficulty, grouped
appropriately though? Utah
guy}\label{lots-of-melodies-in-ascending-order-of-difficulty-grouped-appropriately-though-utah-guy}}

\hypertarget{why-i-encoded-it-in-xml}{%
\subsection{Why I encoded it in XML}\label{why-i-encoded-it-in-xml}}

\hypertarget{is-it-legal}{%
\subsection{Is it legal?}\label{is-it-legal}}

\hypertarget{descriptive-stats-of-corpus}{%
\section{Descriptive Stats of
Corpus}\label{descriptive-stats-of-corpus}}

\hypertarget{why-1}{%
\subsection{Why?}\label{why-1}}

\hypertarget{for-pedagogical-purposes}{%
\subsubsection{For pedagogical
purposes}\label{for-pedagogical-purposes}}

\hypertarget{for-experimental-purposes}{%
\subsubsection{For experimental
purposes}\label{for-experimental-purposes}}

\hypertarget{for-computational-idexing-get-me-melody-with-x-tonal-score}{%
\subsubsection{For computational idexing (get me melody with x tonal
score)}\label{for-computational-idexing-get-me-melody-with-x-tonal-score}}

\hypertarget{could-serve-as-representation-of-implicitly-learned-expectations-for-future-modeling}{%
\subsubsection{Could serve as representation of implicitly learned
expectations for future
modeling}\label{could-serve-as-representation-of-implicitly-learned-expectations-for-future-modeling}}

\hypertarget{feature-level}{%
\subsection{Feature Level}\label{feature-level}}

\hypertarget{what-features-are-normally-distributed}{%
\subsubsection{What features are normally
distributed}\label{what-features-are-normally-distributed}}

\hypertarget{correlated-feature-problem}{%
\subsubsection{Correlated feature
problem}\label{correlated-feature-problem}}

\hypertarget{big-facet-wrap-of-the-whole-thing}{%
\subsubsection{big \textasciitilde{}facet wrap of the whole
thing}\label{big-facet-wrap-of-the-whole-thing}}

\hypertarget{could-do-dimensonality-reduction-baker-harrison-others-but-then-loose-understanding}{%
\subsubsection{Could do dimensonality reduction (Baker, Harrison,
others) but then loose
understanding}\label{could-do-dimensonality-reduction-baker-harrison-others-but-then-loose-understanding}}

\hypertarget{n-gram}{%
\subsection{n-gram}\label{n-gram}}

\hypertarget{big-solfege-n-gram-table}{%
\subsubsection{Big solfege n-gram
table}\label{big-solfege-n-gram-table}}

\hypertarget{dependent-on-representation-notes-solfege-mint}{%
\subsubsection{Dependent on representation (notes, solfege,
mint)}\label{dependent-on-representation-notes-solfege-mint}}

\hypertarget{shiny-app-of-n-gram-heatmap-with-peter}{%
\subsubsection{Shiny app of n-gram heatmap with
Peter}\label{shiny-app-of-n-gram-heatmap-with-peter}}

\hypertarget{idea-would-be-that-hotter-n-grams-lend-them-selves-to-better-chunking-but-need-better-word-than-chunking}{%
\subsubsection{Idea would be that hotter n-grams lend them selves to
better chunking (but need better word than
chunking)}\label{idea-would-be-that-hotter-n-grams-lend-them-selves-to-better-chunking-but-need-better-word-than-chunking}}

\hypertarget{experiments}{%
\chapter{Experiments}\label{experiments}}

\hypertarget{rationale}{%
\section{Rationale}\label{rationale}}

\hypertarget{have-done-all-this-and-have-not-actually-talked-about-dictation-yet}{%
\subsection{Have done all this and have not actually talked about
dictation
yet}\label{have-done-all-this-and-have-not-actually-talked-about-dictation-yet}}

\hypertarget{clearly-many-factors-contribte-to-this-whole-thing-and-need-to-be-taken-into-a-model}{%
\subsection{Clearly many factors contribte to this whole thing and need
to be taken into a
model}\label{clearly-many-factors-contribte-to-this-whole-thing-and-need-to-be-taken-into-a-model}}

\hypertarget{dictation-is-basically-a-within-subjects-design-experiment}{%
\subsection{Dictation is basically a within subjects design
Experiment}\label{dictation-is-basically-a-within-subjects-design-experiment}}

\hypertarget{get-very-ecological-and-dirty-and-run-it}{%
\subsubsection{Get very ecological and dirty and run
it}\label{get-very-ecological-and-dirty-and-run-it}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Paney 2016 had 30 second timing
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{factors}{%
\subsection{Factors}\label{factors}}

\hypertarget{cognitive-1}{%
\subsubsection{Cognitive}\label{cognitive-1}}

\hypertarget{wmc}{%
\paragraph{WMC}\label{wmc}}

\hypertarget{gf}{%
\paragraph{GF}\label{gf}}

\hypertarget{training}{%
\subsubsection{Training}\label{training}}

\hypertarget{goldsmiths-msi}{%
\paragraph{Goldsmiths MSI}\label{goldsmiths-msi}}

\hypertarget{musical}{%
\subsubsection{Musical}\label{musical}}

\hypertarget{fantastic-1}{%
\paragraph{FANTASTIC}\label{fantastic-1}}

\hypertarget{idyom}{%
\paragraph{IDyOM}\label{idyom}}

\hypertarget{investigate-melodies-with-this-context-and-set-scoring}{%
\subsubsection{Investigate melodies with this context and set
scoring}\label{investigate-melodies-with-this-context-and-set-scoring}}

\hypertarget{mirror-design-to-see-if-effects-of-melody-are-there}{%
\subsubsection{Mirror design to see if effects of melody are
there}\label{mirror-design-to-see-if-effects-of-melody-are-there}}

\hypertarget{experiments-1}{%
\section{Experiments}\label{experiments-1}}

\hypertarget{experiment-i}{%
\subsection{Experiment I}\label{experiment-i}}

\hypertarget{participants-1}{%
\subsubsection{Participants}\label{participants-1}}

\hypertarget{procedure-1}{%
\subsubsection{Procedure}\label{procedure-1}}

\hypertarget{materials-1}{%
\subsubsection{Materials}\label{materials-1}}

\hypertarget{scoring}{%
\subsubsection{Scoring}\label{scoring}}

\hypertarget{results-1}{%
\subsubsection{Results}\label{results-1}}

\hypertarget{modeling-1}{%
\subsubsection{Modeling}\label{modeling-1}}

\hypertarget{discussion-1}{%
\subsubsection{Discussion}\label{discussion-1}}

\hypertarget{experiment-ii}{%
\subsection{Experiment II}\label{experiment-ii}}

\hypertarget{participants-new}{%
\subsubsection{Participants (New)}\label{participants-new}}

\hypertarget{procedure-same}{%
\subsubsection{Procedure (Same)}\label{procedure-same}}

\hypertarget{materials-swapped-but-controlled}{%
\subsubsection{Materials (Swapped but
controlled)}\label{materials-swapped-but-controlled}}

\hypertarget{scoring-same}{%
\subsubsection{Scoring (Same)}\label{scoring-same}}

\hypertarget{results-2}{%
\subsubsection{Results}\label{results-2}}

\hypertarget{modeling-same}{%
\subsubsection{Modeling (same)}\label{modeling-same}}

\hypertarget{general-discussion}{%
\subsection{General Discussion}\label{general-discussion}}

\hypertarget{what-happened}{%
\subsubsection{What happened}\label{what-happened}}

\hypertarget{assumption-of-all-of-this-is-that-many-things-are-happening-linearly-in-combination-with-each-other}{%
\subsubsection{Assumption of all of this is that many things are
happening linearly in combination with each
other}\label{assumption-of-all-of-this-is-that-many-things-are-happening-linearly-in-combination-with-each-other}}

\hypertarget{additionally-the-mixed-effects-framework-works-better-with-more-data}{%
\subsubsection{Additionally the mixed effects framework works better
with more
data?}\label{additionally-the-mixed-effects-framework-works-better-with-more-data}}

\hypertarget{also-how-we-score-it-is-going-to-mess-wiht-the-dvs}{%
\subsubsection{Also how we score it is going to mess wiht the
DVs}\label{also-how-we-score-it-is-going-to-mess-wiht-the-dvs}}

\hypertarget{really-what-is-needed-is-computational-model}{%
\subsection{Really what is needed is Computational
Model}\label{really-what-is-needed-is-computational-model}}

\hypertarget{computational-cognitive-model-model-if-time-permits-whole-article-in-itself}{%
\section{Computational Cognitive Model Model (If time permits) {[}Whole
article in
itself{]}}\label{computational-cognitive-model-model-if-time-permits-whole-article-in-itself}}

COMPUTATIONAL MODEL

So thinking all about this, first reviewing the literature and then
trying to run experiments to figure it all out, got kind of frustrated
because even with a mixed effects model, all it is saying is that as
note density goes UP so does difficult, and it interacts with tonality.
Def setting myself up for a ``I could have told you that'' moment from
my music theory colleagues. Also figured since I am doing a dissertation
called modeling melodic dictation, would be good to actually make an
explanatory model of it.

Hopefully by this point, have a good idea of the factors that might
contribute, my task here was to then try and operationalize everything
and make a computer do it.

Actually really inspired by this Lewandowsky book where they had a quip
about how wit the Baddeley model it really has like 150 permutations of
it and some famous example of someone saying that men have more one
night stands than women, but in a heterosexual population that is
mathematically impossible. So it only seemed like it made sense to see
if I could write one out.

So this is how I think it would work, currently in the process of coding
it.

So essentially it's a bayesian inspired model that compares a target
melody, with a corpus of melodies or the prior, that are meant to
represent all ``known'' musical material in someone's musical
understanding. I got the idea from reading about Cowan's Embedded
process model which does not posit the working memory structure as very
distinct from that of everything in long term representation, but rather
uses the central executive idea as the limited window of attention that
can then be focused on things either in LTM or near categorical features
of what is in the purveiw of attention.

Will first go through it on a high level, then make another pass and
talk about how everything is getting operationalised. So imagine that we
have a prior corpus of all the melodies that are covered for sight
singing and dictaiton in the first semester of aural skills (in this
case, melodies X--XX). If we let the corpus M represent all prior
knowledge, where not only is the melody represented as a string of
intervals, but we also get ever n gram permutation of of the melody
based on the idea that the more frequent the exposure of an n-gram, the
more likely it would be to be understood.

This is the first big parameter M.

We could imagine and visualize this as a grid of distributions of all
possible n-grams and the strings that make them up seen here GGPLOT2.
Now although any string of notes is possible, in order to mirror the
limited capacity of WMC, there needs to be some sort of threshold that
is set that would mirror the limits of the window of WMC.

This threshold is the next big parameter, T.

Currently conceptualizing this as being reflective of maximum of
information content threshold as calculated by IDyOM.

Idea here is that as you hear more notes, more IC, the more your fixed
capacity bin of melody is going to be filled up. By making it based on
the IC of a melody string represented in the corpus, patterns that are
more frequent are going to easier to then dictate, which aligns with
intuitions on melodic dictation.

Also need to define a the explicit, implicit threshold. Explicitly known
n-grams should have some sort of fixed amount that if it succedes that,
you would know it. Like karpinski ``knowing'' phase, would also assume
that every interval class would also be ``known'' and if not, that is OK
too, will lead to people not being able to transcribe it.

We've now defined both the individual knowledge parameters and teh
thrshold T of working memory capacity. These consist of WHAT DO YOU CALL
THIS.

With these individual parameters established, we can calculate
difficulty of the melody by running what I am going to be determining as
the `transcribe' function, which is separate from the individual
parameters.

We then can introduce the target melody , t which represents the string
to be dictated.

Idea here is that this melody is compared to the corpus, M, and you get
the IC of each of the n-grams from the prior corpus.

Given the theshold, take the biggest n-gram that fits below the
threshold to be put in the buffer. If you had a huge threshold and could
take IC of whole melody or you KNEW it, would be reflective here. Could
also introduce a function here that just gueses at about the threshold.
Once this is filled up, let's say 4 notes, the notes are then set to the
transcription buffer.

At this point index the n-gram is cross checked against the prior
knowledge and look for matches of it that happen above a certain
``known'' threshold. If it is known, it gets ``notated' and you re-enter
the melody. If not, in this case the 4 gram would get recursively
truncated until found a string, even 2 gram where it is known. If it
gets to a 2 gram and it's not explicitly known, basically because you
don't know that interval, what Karpinksi rails againt as atomistic
hearing. Also good in that people with bigger chunking will do better.

If there is not an exact match, move to split fuzzy searches (future
versions)

Re-entry function is defined by finding the next part of the melody
where either next most common n-gram occurs or where it left off last.
This is then to reflect the two different ways of approaching tacking.
Seing as some people start at front, others start at end. Could be
reflective of primacy and recencey effects of memory, OR maybe it's due
to fact that more prototypical n-grams in habit starts and ends of
melodies\ldots{}.?

This process would then re-occur a few times over until either can't go
anymore (intervals are not known) or till completion.

Afterwards have an idea of the path that it took, counts of those, use
those as proxies of difficulty.

I think this covers everything in the decision making process and each
step of the process can be automated eventually (post doc anyone?!).
More importantly, it reflects ecological phenomonologcial experience of
taking melodic dictaiton.

Aligns with intuitions that People who know more melodies will be better
(singer phenomena) People will try for bigger chunks first, then go to
smaller ones Atomistic transcription can happen but is inefficient
People with higher chunking ability will do better IC is helpful proxy
for this in line with IDyOM literature Relative pitch is where it's at
for things like this What's deal with AP?

\hypertarget{why-2}{%
\subsection{Why?}\label{why-2}}

\hypertarget{better-than-verbal-models}{%
\paragraph{Better than verbal models}\label{better-than-verbal-models}}

\hypertarget{sometimes-even-mathematically-infesable-proposed-theory}{%
\paragraph{Sometimes even mathematically infesable proposed
theory}\label{sometimes-even-mathematically-infesable-proposed-theory}}

\hypertarget{beyond-karpinski-in-that-it-doesnt-just-schematize-says-exactly-when-each-thing-is-happening-when}{%
\paragraph{Beyond Karpinski in that it doesn't just schematize, says
exactly when each thing is happening
when}\label{beyond-karpinski-in-that-it-doesnt-just-schematize-says-exactly-when-each-thing-is-happening-when}}

\hypertarget{lends-itself-to-better-discussions-that-dont-just-rely-on-personal-anecdotes}{%
\paragraph{Lends itself to better discussions that don't just rely on
personal
anecdotes}\label{lends-itself-to-better-discussions-that-dont-just-rely-on-personal-anecdotes}}

\hypertarget{can-tweak-the-parameters}{%
\paragraph{Can tweak the parameters}\label{can-tweak-the-parameters}}

\hypertarget{can-collect-different-types-of-data-corpus-or-experimental-and-use-the-model}{%
\paragraph{Can collect different types of data (corpus or experimental)
and use the
model}\label{can-collect-different-types-of-data-corpus-or-experimental-and-use-the-model}}

\hypertarget{this-model-suggests-that-atomism-approach-is-actual-just-subprocess-of-larger-pattern}{%
\paragraph{This model suggests that atomism approach is actual just
subprocess of larger
pattern}\label{this-model-suggests-that-atomism-approach-is-actual-just-subprocess-of-larger-pattern}}

\hypertarget{theoretical-justification}{%
\subsubsection{Theoretical
Justification}\label{theoretical-justification}}

\hypertarget{marries-literature-on-ltm-and-prior-knowledge-information-theory-wmc-computation-representation}{%
\paragraph{Marries literature on LTM and prior knowledge, information
theory, WMC, computation,
representation}\label{marries-literature-on-ltm-and-prior-knowledge-information-theory-wmc-computation-representation}}

\hypertarget{also-can-be-implemented-in-computer}{%
\paragraph{Also can be implemented in
computer}\label{also-can-be-implemented-in-computer}}

\hypertarget{represntation-of-rhythm-too}{%
\paragraph{represntation of rhythm
too?}\label{represntation-of-rhythm-too}}

\hypertarget{inspired-by-people-like-margulis-2005-albrecht-and-shanahan-key-finding-want-something-to-contribute}{%
\paragraph{inspired by people like margulis 2005, albrecht and shanahan
key finding, want something to
contribute}\label{inspired-by-people-like-margulis-2005-albrecht-and-shanahan-key-finding-want-something-to-contribute}}

\hypertarget{really-made-me-think}{%
\paragraph{Really Made me think}\label{really-made-me-think}}

\hypertarget{the-model-note-many-parameters-can-be-changed-in-r-package}{%
\subsubsection{The Model (note many parameters can be changed in R
package)}\label{the-model-note-many-parameters-can-be-changed-in-r-package}}

\hypertarget{prior}{%
\subsubsection{Prior}\label{prior}}

\hypertarget{corpus-of-music-represented-in-form-of-n-grams}{%
\subparagraph{Corpus of music represented in form of
n-grams}\label{corpus-of-music-represented-in-form-of-n-grams}}

\hypertarget{idyom-extracts-all-possible-n-gram-permutations-as-learned-corpus}{%
\subparagraph{IDyOM extracts all possible n-gram permutations as learned
corpus}\label{idyom-extracts-all-possible-n-gram-permutations-as-learned-corpus}}

\hypertarget{music-notation-fed-into-processing-window-where-incoming-n-gram-is-matched-based-on-wmc-window-or-it-maximum}{%
\paragraph{Music notation fed into processing window where incoming
n-gram is matched based on WMC window OR IT
maximum}\label{music-notation-fed-into-processing-window-where-incoming-n-gram-is-matched-based-on-wmc-window-or-it-maximum}}

\hypertarget{information-builds-until-approaches-critical-threhold}{%
\subparagraph{Information builds until approaches critical
threhold}\label{information-builds-until-approaches-critical-threhold}}

\hypertarget{upon-maximum-model-puts-n-gram-into-focus-of-attention-cowan-1988-and-note-why-this-is-better-than-baddely-hitch}{%
\subparagraph{Upon maximum, model puts n-gram into focus of attention
(Cowan 1988) and note why this is better than Baddely
Hitch}\label{upon-maximum-model-puts-n-gram-into-focus-of-attention-cowan-1988-and-note-why-this-is-better-than-baddely-hitch}}

\hypertarget{recursive-transcribe-function-looks-for-ltm-matches}{%
\subparagraph{Recursive transcribe function looks for LTM
matches}\label{recursive-transcribe-function-looks-for-ltm-matches}}

Option 1: Pattern Matched and Pattern Transcribed, success?

Option 2: Pattern not matched in full, truncated and use match option
again (should be higher probability of match with corpus)

Option 3: Pattern not matched downsize again until at interval level and
relying on 2-gram (atomism)

On sucess of option, reopen gate at nearest long implicit n-gram LTM
Match (start or end problem)

\hypertarget{put-time-contraints-on-search-features}{%
\subparagraph{Put time contraints on search
features}\label{put-time-contraints-on-search-features}}

\hypertarget{transcribe-process-resets-with-trace-image-of-melody-after-each-dictation}{%
\subparagraph{Transcribe process resets with trace image of melody after
each
dictation}\label{transcribe-process-resets-with-trace-image-of-melody-after-each-dictation}}

\hypertarget{transcribe-process-ends-when-all-notes-accounted-for}{%
\subparagraph{Transcribe process ends when all notes accounted
for}\label{transcribe-process-ends-when-all-notes-accounted-for}}

\hypertarget{model-output}{%
\subsubsection{Model Output}\label{model-output}}

\hypertarget{based-on-leanrning-times-needed-to-hear-it}{%
\paragraph{Based on leanrning, times needed to hear
it}\label{based-on-leanrning-times-needed-to-hear-it}}

\hypertarget{completion-percentage}{%
\paragraph{Completion percentage}\label{completion-percentage}}

\hypertarget{rank-order-of-easier-to-transcribe-parts-based-on-learning}{%
\paragraph{Rank order of easier to transcribe parts based on
learning}\label{rank-order-of-easier-to-transcribe-parts-based-on-learning}}

\hypertarget{model-compared-to-data}{%
\subsubsection{Model Compared to Data}\label{model-compared-to-data}}

\hypertarget{with-experimental-data}{%
\paragraph{With Experimental Data}\label{with-experimental-data}}

\hypertarget{future-suggestions-for-aural-skills-pedagoges-and-research}{%
\subsection{Future Suggestions for Aural Skills Pedagoges and
Research}\label{future-suggestions-for-aural-skills-pedagoges-and-research}}

\hypertarget{use-model-as-teaching-stepping-off-point}{%
\subsubsection{Use model as teaching stepping off
point}\label{use-model-as-teaching-stepping-off-point}}

\hypertarget{should-move-towards-ltm-pattern-matching}{%
\subsubsection{Should move towards LTM pattern
matching}\label{should-move-towards-ltm-pattern-matching}}

\hypertarget{reason-that-people-learn-how-to-sight-sing-is-to-increase-the-learning-of-the-implict-corpus}{%
\subsubsection{Reason that people learn how to sight sing is to INCREASE
the learning of the implict
corpus}\label{reason-that-people-learn-how-to-sight-sing-is-to-increase-the-learning-of-the-implict-corpus}}

\hypertarget{circular-process-here}{%
\subsubsection{Circular process here}\label{circular-process-here}}

\hypertarget{is-this-what-it-means-to-then-think-in-music}{%
\subsubsection{Is this what it means to then think IN
music}\label{is-this-what-it-means-to-then-think-in-music}}

\hypertarget{really-its-to-just-know-the-patterns-maybe-like-model-where-justin-london-suggests-we-get-to-know-patterns-and-expect-themn}{%
\subsubsection{Really it's to just know the patterns maybe like model
where Justin London suggests we get to know patterns and expect
themn}\label{really-its-to-just-know-the-patterns-maybe-like-model-where-justin-london-suggests-we-get-to-know-patterns-and-expect-themn}}

\hypertarget{would-also-make-sense-in-terms-of-leonard-meyer-1956}{%
\subsubsection{Would also make sense in terms of Leonard Meyer
1956}\label{would-also-make-sense-in-terms-of-leonard-meyer-1956}}

\hypertarget{use-wmc-in-music-theory-cognition-education-studies}{%
\subsubsection{Use WMC in music theory, cognition, education
studies}\label{use-wmc-in-music-theory-cognition-education-studies}}

\hypertarget{reference-log}{%
\chapter{Reference Log}\label{reference-log}}

\hypertarget{to-incorporate}{%
\section{To Incorporate}\label{to-incorporate}}

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  \citep{margulisModelMelodicExpectation2005} -- Margulis Model
\item
  \citep{nicholsScoreOneJazz2018} -- Specialty jazz background helps in
  tasks, WMC
\item
  \citep{NASM201718HandbookPdf2018} -- Fix intext
\item
  \citep{schumann1860musikalische} -- Quote about why people should do
  ear training
\item
  \citep{smith1934solfege} -- Quote from K2001 about why people should
  do ear training
\item
  \citep{longRelationshipsPitchMemory1977} -- Musical Characteristics
  predict memory
\item
  \citep{taylorStrategiesMemoryShort1983} -- Great citation that lots of
  things change memory, even structural!
\item
  \citep{tallaricoStudyThreePhase1974} -- Long boring talk on STM, LTM
\item
  \citep{ouraConstructingRepresentationMelody1991a} -- Awful
  experimental design that says people use structual tones
\item
  \citep{buonviriExplorationUndergraduateMusic2014} -- Call for
  experimental, suggestions as to what factors might contribute, use of
  deductive reasoning, qualitative
\item
  \citep{buonviriEffectsPreparatorySinging2015} -- People need to focus
  right away, not establish, distractors
\item
  \citep{buonviriEffectsMusicNotation2015} -- Showing people visual
  music does not help much.
\item
  \citep{buonviriEffectsTwoListening2017} -- Listening helps with other
  things, no best strategy in terms of writing
\item
  \citep{buonviriMelodicDictationInstruction2015} -- Literature to say
  people are bad at teaching melodic dictation and we don't know a lot
  about it, also interesting stuff about what solfege systems people use
\item
  \citep{davidbutlerWhyGulfMusic1997a} -- Call for music educators to do
  aural skills research, notes problem with aural skills pedagogy in
  lack of direction, also nice Nicholas Cook quotes on point of theory
\item
  \citep{furbyEffectsPeerTutoring2016} -- music ed study with weird
  stats, has references to follow up on with advantages of pitch systems
  and people who reccomend things for sight singing
\item
  \citep{pembrookInterferenceTranscriptionProcess1986} -- Effects of
  melodies, also how people do it. Interesting that they too effect of
  melodies, but talka bout things in terms of notes and not in terms of
  information content. Thought ot have an experiment where the n-grams
  that are more common are easier to write down. Lots of good charts
  too.
\item
  \citep{paneyEffectDirectingAttention2016} -- It's not good if you tell
  people what to do when they are dictating, article has a lot of good
  review for dictation materials to add to the `toRead' folder.
\item
  \citep{fournierCognitiveStrategiesSightsinging2017a} -- Good
  references that people are awful at Aural Skills, Also suggestions
  that people are not that great at transfer, and some stuff to suggest
  academic abililty is intertwined in all of this. Good reference for
  when starting to talk about untangling the mess that is aural skills.
\item
  \citep[ 1995]{berzWorkingMemoryMusic} -- Add on a new module to the
  WMC model of baddel with music, presents some evidence for why this
  theoretically should be included, but actually takes examples of
  dictation. A lot of this article felt like things that i was
  reinventing\ldots{}not good.
\item
  \citep{atkinsonSomeThoughtsOnTrying} -- Proof some other people are
  starting to think in terms of pedagogical schemas
\item
  \citep{klonoskiPerceptualLearningHierarchy2000} -- Music cognition
  needs to talk to aural skills more, also need to unbind theory routine
  with aural skills and think of things more as in a perceptual learning
  hierarchy
\item
  \citep{klonoskiImprovingDictationAuralSkills2006} -- great quotes that
  when people get something wrong with aural skills, what does that even
  mean, lack of transfer effects, article ends with ways to get better
  at things
\item
  \citep{pembrookSendHelpAural1990} -- Survey of what people in the late
  1980s were doing in terms of aural skills pedagogy
\item
  \citep{karpinskiModelMelodicPerception1990} -- addresses why Gary
  Karpinski thinks we should teach melodic dictation
\item
  \citep{potterIdentifyingSucessfulDictation1990} -- dictation teacher
  surprised that people don't keep up their dictaiton skills quote
\end{itemize}

\hypertarget{chapter-3}{%
\section{Chapter 3}\label{chapter-3}}

\begin{itemize}
\item
  \citep{cowanWorkingMemoryCapacity2005} -- This book will probably
  serve as cornerstone of chapter in terms of creating relevant
  literature in addition to EE course readings on WMC. Provides history
  of WMC models and notes how attention based model as opposed to
  Baddely loop might actually be better theoretical model for talking
  about fact that WMC could just be something related to attention if
  not that. Provides extensive listing on problems with chunking that
  are all relevant to music, but then also supports it. Shows that
  Miller 1956 is a generally bad citation, own author even says that in
  Miller 1989 (check and add) and says limit is probably about 4 (use
  Cowan 2001 for ctation find that). Lots of good ideas like how music
  is always serial recall, examples of how to model the process, great
  discussions on zooming out and categorical nature of music within span
  of WMC ideas.
\item
  \citep{ockelfordMusicModuleWorking2007} -- uses case of savant to
  argue bits of Berz WM Music Model
\end{itemize}

\bibliography{book.bib,packages.bib}


\end{document}
